# Treant
## Treant
*Huge Plant, Chaotic Good*

**AC** 16
**HP** 138 (12d12 + 60)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 23 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 21 | +5 | +5 |
| **INT** 12 | +1 | +1 | **WIS** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CHA** 12 | +1 | +1 |

**Vulnerabilities** Fire
**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** Common, Druidic, Elvish, Sylvan
**CR** 9 (XP 5,000; PB +4)

### Traits
**Siege Monster.** The treant deals double damage to objects and structures.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The treant makes two Slam attacks.
**Slam.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +10, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 16 (3d6 + 6) Bludgeoning damage.
**Hail of Bark.** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +10, range 180 ft. *Hit:* 28 (4d10 + 6) Piercing damage.
**Animate Trees (1/Day).** The treant magically animates up to two trees it can see within 60 feet of itself. Each tree uses the **Treant** stat block, except it has Intelligence and Charisma scores of 1, it can't speak, and it lacks this action. The tree takes its turn immediately after the treant on the same Initiative count, and it obeys the treant. A tree remains animate for 1 day or until it dies, the treant dies, or it is more than 120 feet from the treant. The tree then takes root if possible.

# Troll
## Troll
*Large Giant, Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 15
**HP** 94 (9d10 + 45)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 20 | +5 | +5 |
| **INT** 7 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** Giant
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Loathsome Limbs (4/Day).** If the troll ends any turn Bloodied and took 15+ Slashing damage during that turn, one of the troll's limbs is severed, falls into the troll's space, and becomes a **Troll Limb**. The limb acts immediately after the troll's turn. The troll has 1 Exhaustion level for each missing limb, and it grows replacement limbs the next time it regains Hit Points.
**Regeneration.** The troll regains 15 Hit Points at the start of each of its turns. If the troll takes Acid or Fire damage, this trait doesn't function on the troll's next turn. The troll dies only if it starts its turn with 0 Hit Points and doesn't regenerate.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The troll makes three Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Slashing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Charge.** The troll moves up to half its Speed straight toward an enemy it can see.

## Troll Limb
*Small Giant, Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 13
**HP** 14 (4d6)
**Speed** 20 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 1 | -5 | -5 |

**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Regeneration.** The limb regains 5 Hit Points at the start of each of its turns. If the limb takes Acid or Fire damage, this trait doesn't function on the limb's next turn. The limb dies only if it starts its turn with 0 Hit Points and doesn't regenerate.
**Troll Spawn.** The limb uncannily has the same senses as a whole troll. If the limb isn't destroyed within 24 hours, roll 1d12. On a 12, the limb turns into a **Troll**. Otherwise, the limb withers away.

### Actions
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (2d4 + 4) Slashing damage.

---
333 System Reference Document 5.2.1

# Unicorn
## Unicorn
*Large Celestial, Lawful Good*

**AC** 12
**HP** 97 (13d10 + 26)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +8 (18)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 11 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 17 | +3 | +3 | **CHA** 16 | +3 | +3 |

**Immunities** Poison; Charmed, Paralyzed, Poisoned
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** Celestial, Elvish, Sylvan; telepathy 120 ft.
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Legendary Resistance (3/Day).** If the unicorn fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
**Magic Resistance.** The unicorn has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The unicorn makes one Hooves attack and one Radiant Horn attack.
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.
**Radiant Horn.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (1d10 + 4) Radiant damage.
**Spellcasting.** The unicorn casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14):
**At Will:** *Detect Evil and Good, Druidcraft*
**1/Day Each:** *Calm Emotions, Dispel Evil and Good, Entangle, Pass without Trace, Word of Recall*

### Bonus Actions
**Unicorn's Blessing (3/Day).** The unicorn touches another creature with its horn and casts *Cure Wounds* or *Lesser Restoration* on that creature, using the same spellcasting ability as Spellcasting.

### Legendary Actions
*Legendary Action Uses: 3. Immediately after another creature's turn, the unicorn can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The unicorn regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.*
**Charging Horn.** The unicorn moves up to half its Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks, and it makes one Radiant Horn attack.
**Shimmering Shield.** The unicorn targets itself or one creature it can see within 60 feet of itself. The target gains 10 (3d6) Temporary Hit Points, and its AC increases by 2 until the end of the unicorn's next turn. The unicorn can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.

# Vampires
## Vampire Familiar
*Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 15
**HP** 65 (10d8 + 20)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +5 (15)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +5 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +2 | **CHA** 14 | +2 | +2 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Persuasion +4, Stealth +7
**Resistances** Necrotic
**Immunities** Charmed (except from its vampire master)
**Gear** Daggers (10)
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Common plus one other language
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Traits
**Vampiric Connection.** While the familiar and its vampire master are on the same plane of existence, the vampire can communicate with the familiar telepathically, and the vampire can perceive through the familiar's senses.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The familiar makes two Umbral Dagger attacks.
**Umbral Dagger.** *Melee or Ranged Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7 (3d4) Necrotic damage. If the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points by this attack, the target becomes Stable but has the Poisoned condition for 1 hour. While it has the Poisoned condition, the target has the Paralyzed condition.

### Bonus Actions
**Deathless Agility.** The familiar takes the Dash or Disengage action.

## Vampire Spawn
*Medium or Small Undead, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 16
**HP** 90 (12d8 + 36)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

---
334 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +6 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 11 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +3 | **CHA** 12 | +1 | +1 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +6
**Resistances** Necrotic
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** Common plus one other language
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The vampire can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

**Vampire Weakness.** The vampire has these weaknesses:
**Forbiddance.** The vampire can't enter a residence without an invitation from an occupant.
**Running Water.** The vampire takes 20 Acid damage if it ends its turn in running water.
**Stake to the Heart.** The vampire is destroyed if a weapon that deals Piercing damage is driven into the vampire's heart while the vampire has the Incapacitated condition.
**Sunlight.** The vampire takes 20 Radiant damage if it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The vampire makes two Claw attacks and uses Bite.
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (2d4 + 3) Slashing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 13) from one of two claws.
**Bite.** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 14, one creature within 5 feet that is willing or that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condition. *Failure:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) Necrotic damage. The target's Hit Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains Hit Points equal to that amount.

### Bonus Actions
**Deathless Agility.** The vampire takes the Dash or Disengage action.

# Vampire
*Medium or Small Undead, Lawful Evil*

**AC** 16
**HP** 195 (23d8 + 92)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +14 (24)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 18 | +4 | +9 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +9 |
| **INT** 17 | +3 | +3 | **WIS** 15 | +2 | +7 | **CHA** 18 | +4 | +9 |

**Skills** Perception +7, Stealth +9
**Resistances** Necrotic
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 17
**Languages** Common plus two other languages
**CR** 13 (XP 10,000, or 11,500 in lair; PB +5)

### Traits
**Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair).** If the vampire fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
**Misty Escape.** If the vampire drops to 0 Hit Points outside its resting place, the vampire uses Shape-Shift to become mist (no action required). If it can't use Shape-Shift, it is destroyed.
While it has 0 Hit Points in mist form, it can't return to its vampire form, and it must reach its resting place within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in its resting place, it returns to its vampire form and has the Paralyzed condition until it regains any Hit Points, and it regains 1 Hit Point after spending 1 hour there.
**Spider Climb.** The vampire can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
**Vampire Weakness.** The vampire has these weaknesses:
**Forbiddance.** The vampire can't enter a residence without an invitation from an occupant.
**Running Water.** The vampire takes 20 Acid damage if it ends its turn in running water.
**Stake to the Heart.** If a weapon that deals Piercing damage is driven into the vampire's heart while the vampire has the Incapacitated condition in its resting place, the vampire has the Paralyzed condition until the weapon is removed.
**Sunlight.** The vampire takes 20 Radiant damage if it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.

### Actions
**Multiattack (Vampire Form Only).** The vampire makes two Grave Strike attacks and uses Bite.
**Grave Strike (Vampire Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +9, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (1d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage plus 7 (2d6) Necrotic damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 14) from one of two hands.
**Bite (Bat or Vampire Form Only).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 17, one creature within 5 feet that is willing or that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condition. *Failure:* 6 (1d4 + 4) Piercing damage plus 13 (3d8) Necrotic damage. The target's Hit Point maximum

---
335 System Reference Document 5.2.1

decreases by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains Hit Points equal to that amount. A Humanoid reduced to 0 Hit Points by this damage and then buried rises the following sunset as a **Vampire Spawn** under the vampire's control.

### Bonus Actions
**Charm (Recharge 5–6).** The vampire casts *Charm Person*, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17), and the duration is 24 hours. The Charmed target is a willing recipient of the vampire's Bite, the damage of which doesn't end the spell. When the spell ends, the target is unaware it was Charmed by the vampire.
**Shape-Shift.** If the vampire isn't in sunlight or running water, it shape-shifts into a Tiny bat (Speed 5 ft., Fly Speed 30 ft.) or a Medium cloud of mist (Speed 5 ft., Fly Speed 20 ft. [hover]), or it returns to its vampire form. Anything it is wearing transforms with it.
While in bat form, the vampire can't speak. Its game statistics, other than its size and Speed, are unchanged.
While in mist form, the vampire can't take any actions, speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless and can enter an enemy's space and stop there. If air can pass through a space, the mist can do so, but it can't pass through liquid. It has Resistance to all damage, except the damage it takes from sunlight.

### Legendary Actions
*Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature's turn, the vampire can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The vampire regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.*
**Beguile.** The vampire casts Command, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 17). The vampire can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.
**Deathless Strike.** The vampire moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Grave Strike attack.

# Vrock
## Vrock
*Large Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 15
**HP** 152 (16d10 + 64)
**Speed** 40 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +5 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 8 | -1 | -1 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +4 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | +2 |

**Resistances** Cold, Fire, Lightning
**Immunities** Poison; Poisoned
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** Abyssal; telepathy 120 ft.
**CR** 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)

### Traits
**Demonic Restoration.** If the vrock dies outside the Abyss, its body dissolves into ichor, and it gains a new body instantly, reviving with all its Hit Points somewhere in the Abyss.
**Magic Resistance.** The vrock has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The vrock makes two Shred attacks.
**Shred.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) Poison damage.
**Spores (Recharge 6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 15, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the vrock. *Failure:* The target has the Poisoned condition and repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. While Poisoned, the target takes 5 (1d10) Poison damage at the start of each of its turns. Emptying a flask of Holy Water on the target ends the effect early.
**Stunning Screech (1/Day).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 15, each creature in a 20-foot Emanation originating from the vrock (demons succeed automatically). *Failure:* 10 (3d6) Thunder damage, and the target has the Stunned condition until the end of the vrock's next turn.

# Warriors
## Warrior Infantry
*Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral*

**AC** 13
**HP** 9 (2d8)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 8 | -1 | -1 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Gear** Chain Shirt, Spear
**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** Common
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

---
336 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The warrior has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the warrior's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Spear.** *Melee or Ranged Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d6 + 1) Piercing damage.

## Warrior Veteran
*Medium or Small Humanoid, Neutral*

**AC** 17
**HP** 65 (10d8 + 20)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 10 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Athletics +5, Perception +2
**Gear** Greatsword, Heavy Crossbow, Splint Armor
**Senses** Passive Perception 12
**Languages** Common plus one other language
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The warrior makes two Greatsword or Heavy Crossbow attacks.
**Greatsword.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage.
**Heavy Crossbow.** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +3, range 100/400 ft. *Hit:* 12 (2d10 + 1) Piercing damage.

### Reactions
**Parry.** *Trigger:* The warrior is hit by a melee attack roll while holding a weapon. *Response:* The warrior adds 2 to its AC against that attack, possibly causing it to miss.

# Water Elemental
## Water Elemental
*Large Elemental, Neutral*

**AC** 14
**HP** 114 (12d10 + 48)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 90 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Resistances** Acid, Fire
**Immunities** Poison; Exhaustion, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Unconscious
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** Primordial (Aquan)
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Freeze.** If the elemental takes Cold damage, its Speed decreases by 20 feet until the end of its next turn.
**Water Form.** The elemental can enter an enemy's space and stop there. It can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without expending extra movement to do so.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The elemental makes two Slam attacks.
**Slam.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 13 (2d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
**Whelm (Recharge 4–6).** *Strength Saving Throw:* DC 15, each creature in the elemental's space. *Failure:* 22 (4d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 14). Until the grapple ends, the target has the Restrained condition, is suffocating unless it can breathe water, and takes 9 (2d8) Bludgeoning damage at the start of each of the elemental's turns. The elemental can grapple one Large creature or up to two Medium or smaller creatures at a time with Whelm. As an action, a creature within 5 feet of the elemental can pull a creature out of it by succeeding on a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. *Success:* Half damage only.

# Werebear
## Werebear
*Medium or Small Monstrosity (Lycanthrope), Neutral Good*

**AC** 15
**HP** 135 (18d8 + 54)
**Speed** 30 ft., 40 ft. (bear form only), Climb 30 ft. (bear form only)
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 11 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 12 | +1 | +1 |

**Skills** Perception +7
**Gear** Handaxes (4)
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 17
**Languages** Common (can't speak in bear form)
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The werebear makes two attacks, using Handaxe or Rend in any combination. It can replace one attack with a Bite attack.
**Bite (Bear or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 17 (2d12 + 4) Piercing damage. If the target is a Humanoid, it is subjected to the following effect. *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 14. *Failure:* The target is cursed. If the cursed target drops to 0 Hit Points, it instead becomes a **Werebear** under the GM's

---
337 System Reference Document 5.2.1

control and has 10 Hit Points. *Success:* The target is immune to this werebear's curse for 24 hours.
**Handaxe (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee or Ranged Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft or range 20/60 ft. *Hit:* 14 (3d6 + 4) Slashing damage.
**Rend (Bear or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 13 (2d8 + 4) Slashing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Shape-Shift.** The werebear shape-shifts into a Large bear-humanoid hybrid form or a Large bear, or it returns to its true humanoid form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.

# Wereboar
## Wereboar
*Medium or Small Monstrosity (Lycanthrope), Neutral Evil*

**AC** 15
**HP** 97 (15d8 + 30)
**Speed** 30 ft., 40 ft. (boar form only)
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Gear** Javelins (6)
**Senses** Passive Perception 12
**Languages** Common (can't speak in boar form)
**CR** 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The wereboar makes two attacks, using Javelin or Tusk in any combination. It can replace one attack with a Gore attack.
**Gore (Boar or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 12 (2d8 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Humanoid, it is subjected to the following effect. *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 12. *Failure:* The target is cursed. If the cursed target drops to 0 Hit Points, it instead becomes a **Wereboar** under the GM's control and has 10 Hit Points. *Success:* The target is immune to this wereboar's curse for 24 hours.
**Javelin (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee or Ranged Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. or range 30/120 ft. *Hit:* 13 (3d6 + 3) Piercing damage.
**Tusk (Boar or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature and the wereboar moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) Piercing damage and has the Prone condition.

### Bonus Actions
**Shape-Shift.** The wereboar shape-shifts into a Medium boar-humanoid hybrid or a Small boar, or it returns to its true humanoid form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.

# Wererat
## Wererat
*Medium or Small Monstrosity (Lycanthrope), Lawful Evil*

**AC** 13
**HP** 60 (11d8 + 11)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 10 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 11 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +5
**Gear** Hand Crossbow
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Common (can't speak in rat form)
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The wererat makes two attacks, using Scratch or Hand Crossbow in any combination. It can replace one attack with a Bite attack.
**Bite (Rat or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (2d4 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Humanoid, it is subjected to the following effect. *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 11. *Failure:* The target is cursed. If the cursed target drops to 0 Hit Points, it instead becomes a **Wererat** under the GM's control and has 10 Hit Points. *Success:* The target is immune to this wererat's curse for 24 hours.
**Scratch.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Slashing damage.
**Hand Crossbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only).** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +5, range 30/120 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Piercing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Shape-Shift.** The wererat shape-shifts into a Medium rat-humanoid hybrid or a Small rat, or it returns to its true humanoid form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.

---
338 System Reference Document 5.2.1

# Weretiger
## Weretiger
*Medium or Small Monstrosity (Lycanthrope), Neutral*

**AC** 12
**HP** 120 (16d8 + 48)
**Speed** 30 ft., 40 ft. (tiger form only)
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 11 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +4
**Gear** Longbow
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** Common (can't speak in tiger form)
**CR** 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The weretiger makes two attacks, using Scratch or Longbow in any combination. It can replace one attack with a Bite attack.
**Bite (Tiger or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 12 (2d8 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Humanoid, it is subjected to the following effect. *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 13. *Failure:* The target is cursed. If the cursed target drops to 0 Hit Points, it instead becomes a **Weretiger** under the GM's control and has 10 Hit Points. *Success:* The target is immune to this weretiger's curse for 24 hours.
**Scratch.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage.
**Longbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only).** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +4, range 150/600 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d8 + 2) Piercing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Prowl (Tiger or Hybrid Form Only).** The weretiger moves up to its Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks. At the end of this movement, the weretiger can take the Hide action.
**Shape-Shift.** The weretiger shape-shifts into a Large tiger-humanoid hybrid or a Large tiger, or it returns to its true humanoid form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.

# Werewolf
## Werewolf
*Medium or Small Monstrosity (Lycanthrope), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 15
**HP** 71 (11d8 + 22)
**Speed** 30 ft., 40 ft. (wolf form only)
**Initiative** +4 (14)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 10 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +4
**Gear** Longbow
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Common (can't speak in wolf form)
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The werewolf has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the werewolf's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The werewolf makes two attacks, using Scratch or Longbow in any combination. It can replace one attack with a Bite attack.
**Bite (Wolf or Hybrid Form Only).** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 12 (2d8 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Humanoid, it is subjected to the following effect. *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 12. *Failure:* The target is cursed. If the cursed target drops to 0 Hit Points, it instead becomes a **Werewolf** under the GM's control and has 10 Hit Points. *Success:* The target is immune to this werewolf's curse for 24 hours.
**Scratch.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage.
**Longbow (Humanoid or Hybrid Form Only).** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +4, range 150/600 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d8 + 2) Piercing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Shape-Shift.** The werewolf shape-shifts into a Large wolf-humanoid hybrid or a Medium wolf, or it returns to its true humanoid form. Its game statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed.

# White Dragons
## White Dragon Wyrmling
*Medium Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 16
**HP** 32 (5d8 + 10)
**Speed** 30 ft., Burrow 15 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

---
339 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +2 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +2 | **CHA** 11 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +2
**Immunities** Cold
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Draconic
**CR** 2 (450 XP; PB +2)

### Traits
**Ice Walk.** The dragon can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, Difficult Terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The dragon makes two Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Slashing damage plus 2 (1d4) Cold damage.
**Cold Breath (Recharge 5-6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 12, each creature in a 15-foot Cone. *Failure:* 22 (5d8) Cold damage. *Success:* Half damage.

## Young White Dragon
*Large Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 17
**HP** 123 (13d10 + 52)
**Speed** 40 ft., Burrow 20 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +3 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 6 | -2 | 2 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +3 | **CHA** 12 | +1 | +1 |

**Skills** Perception +6, Stealth +3
**Immunities** Cold
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
**Languages** Common, Draconic
**CR** 6 (2,300 XP; PB +3)

### Traits
**Ice Walk.** The dragon can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, Difficult Terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 9 (2d4 + 4) Slashing damage plus 2 (1d4) Cold damage.
**Cold Breath (Recharge 5-6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 15, each creature in a 30-foot Cone. *Failure:* 40 (9d8) Cold damage. *Success:* Half damage.

# Adult White Dragon
*Huge Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 18
**HP** 200 (16d12 + 96)
**Speed** 40 ft., Burrow 30 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +10 (20)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 22 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +5 | **CON** 22 | +6 | +6 |
| **INT** 8 | -1 | -1 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +6 | **CHA** 12 | +1 | +1 |

**Skills** Perception +11, Stealth +5
**Immunities** Cold
**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 21
**Languages** Common, Draconic
**CR** 13 (XP 10,000, or 11,500 in lair; PB +5)

### Traits
**Ice Walk.** The dragon can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, Difficult Terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement.
**Legendary Resistance (3/Day, or 4/Day in Lair).** If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +11, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 13 (2d6 + 6) Slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) Cold damage.
**Cold Breath (Recharge 5-6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 19, each creature in a 60-foot Cone. *Failure:* 54 (12d8) Cold damage. *Success:* Half damage.

### Legendary Actions
*Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature's turn, the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.*
**Freezing Burst.** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 14, each creature in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet. *Failure:* 7 (2d6) Cold damage, and the target's Speed is 0 until the end of the target's next turn. *Failure or Success:* The dragon can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.
**Frightful Presence.** The dragon casts *Fear*, requiring no Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 14). The dragon can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.
**Pounce.** The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.

---
340 System Reference Document 5.2.1

# Ancient White Dragon
*Gargantuan Dragon (Chromatic), Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 20
**HP** 333 (18d20 + 144)
**Speed** 40 ft., Burrow 40 ft., Fly 80 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +12 (22)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 26 | +8 | +8 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +6 | **CON** 26 | +8 | +8 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +7 | **CHA** 18 | +4 | +4 |

**Skills** Perception +13, Stealth +6
**Immunities** Cold
**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft., Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 23
**Languages** Common, Draconic
**CR** 20 (XP 25,000, or 33,000 in lair; PB +6)

### Traits
**Ice Walk.** The dragon can move across and climb icy surfaces without needing to make an ability check. Additionally, Difficult Terrain composed of ice or snow doesn't cost it extra movement.
**Legendary Resistance (4/Day, or 5/Day in Lair).** If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The dragon makes three Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +14, reach 15 ft. *Hit:* 17 (2d8 + 8) Slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) Cold damage.
**Cold Breath (Recharge 5–6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 22, each creature in a 90-foot Cone. *Failure:* 63 (14d8) Cold damage. *Success:* Half damage.

### Legendary Actions
*Legendary Action Uses: 3 (4 in Lair). Immediately after another creature's turn, the dragon can expend a use to take one of the following actions. The dragon regains all expended uses at the start of each of its turns.*
**Freezing Burst.** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 20, each creature in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point the dragon can see within 120 feet. *Failure:* 14 (4d6) Cold damage, and the target's Speed is 0 until the end of the target's next turn. *Failure or Success:* The dragon can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.
**Frightful Presence.** The dragon casts *Fear*, requiring no Material components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability (spell save DC 18). The dragon can't take this action again until the start of its next turn.
**Pounce.** The dragon moves up to half its Speed, and it makes one Rend attack.

# Wight
## Wight
*Medium Undead, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 14
**HP** 82 (11d8 + 33)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +4 (14)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 15 | +2 | +2 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +4
**Resistances** Necrotic
**Immunities** Poison; Exhaustion, Poisoned
**Gear** Studded Leather Armor
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** Common plus one other language
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Traits
**Sunlight Sensitivity.** While in sunlight, the wight has Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The wight makes two attacks, using Necrotic Sword or Necrotic Bow in any combination. It can replace one attack with a use of Life Drain.
**Necrotic Sword.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) Necrotic damage.
**Necrotic Bow.** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +4, range 150/600 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) Necrotic damage.
**Life Drain.** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 13, one creature within 5 feet. *Failure:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Necrotic damage, and the target's Hit Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the damage taken.
A Humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a **Zombie** under the wight's control, unless the Humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The wight can have no more than twelve zombies under its control at a time.

# Will-o'-Wisp
## Will-o'-Wisp
*Tiny Undead, Chaotic Evil*

**AC** 19
**HP** 27 (11d4)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 50 ft. (hover)
**Initiative** +9 (19)

---
341 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 1 | -5 | -5 | **DEX** 28 | +9 | +9 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 13 | +1 | +1 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 11 | +0 | +0 |

**Resistances** Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Necrotic, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Lightning, Poison; Exhaustion, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Unconscious
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** Common plus one other language
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Ephemeral.** The wisp can't wear or carry anything.
**Illumination.** The wisp sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
**Incorporeal Movement.** The wisp can move through other creatures and objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.

### Actions
**Shock.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d8 + 2) Lightning damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Consume Life.** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 10, one living creature the wisp can see within 5 feet that has 0 Hit Points. *Failure:* The target dies, and the wisp regains 10 (3d6) Hit Points.
**Vanish.** The wisp and its light have the Invisible condition until the wisp's Concentration ends on this effect, which ends early immediately after the wisp makes an attack roll or uses Consume Life.

# Winter Wolf
## Winter Wolf
*Large Monstrosity, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 13
**HP** 75 (10d10 + 20)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 7 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +5
**Immunities** Cold
**Senses** Passive Perception 15
**Languages** Common, Giant
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The wolf has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the wolf's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.
**Cold Breath (Recharge 5-6).** *Constitution Saving Throw:* DC 12, each creature in a 15-foot Cone. *Failure:* 18 (4d8) Cold damage. *Success:* Half damage.

# Worg
## Worg
*Large Fey, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 13
**HP** 26 (4d10 + 4)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 7 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Goblin, Worg
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage, and the next attack roll made against the target before the start of the worg's next turn has Advantage.

# Wraith
## Wraith
*Medium or Small Undead, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 13
**HP** 67 (9d8 + 27)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 60 ft. (hover)
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 6 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 12 | +1 | +1 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 15 | +2 | +2 |

**Resistances** Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Prone, Restrained, Unconscious
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** Common plus two other languages
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

---
342 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Incorporeal Movement.** The wraith can move through other creatures and objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.
**Sunlight Sensitivity.** While in sunlight, the wraith has Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls.

### Actions
**Life Drain.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 21 (4d8 + 3) Necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, its Hit Point maximum decreases by an amount equal to the damage taken.
**Create Specter.** The wraith targets a Humanoid corpse within 10 feet of itself that has been dead for no longer than 1 minute. The target's spirit rises as a **Specter** in the space of its corpse or in the nearest unoccupied space. The specter is under the wraith's control. The wraith can have no more than seven specters under its control at a time.

# Wyvern
## Wyvern
*Large Dragon, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 127 (15d10 + 45)
**Speed** 30 ft., Fly 80 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +4
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The wyvern makes one Bite attack and one Sting attack.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 13 (2d8 + 4) Piercing damage.
**Sting.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage plus 24 (7d6) Poison damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the start of the wyvern's next turn.

# Xorn
## Xorn
*Medium Elemental, Neutral*

**AC** 19
**HP** 84 (8d8 + 48)
**Speed** 20 ft., Burrow 20 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 22 | +6 | +6 |
| **INT** 11 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 11 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +6, Stealth +6
**Immunities** Poison; Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft., Tremorsense 60 ft.; Passive Perception 16
**Languages** Primordial (Terran)
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Earth Glide.** The xorn can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth and stone. While doing so, the xorn doesn't disturb the material it moves through.
**Treasure Sense.** The xorn can pinpoint the location of precious metals and stones within 60 feet of itself.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The xorn makes one Bite attack and three Claw attacks.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 17 (4d6 + 3) Piercing damage.
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (1d10 + 3) Slashing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Charge.** The xorn moves up to its Speed or Burrow Speed straight toward an enemy it can sense.

# Zombies
## Zombie
*Medium Undead, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 8
**HP** 15 (2d8 + 6)
**Speed** 20 ft.
**Initiative** -2 (8)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 6 | -2 | -2 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 6 | -2 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Immunities** Poison; Exhaustion, Poisoned
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** Understands Common plus one other language but can't speak
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Undead Fortitude.** If damage reduces the zombie to 0 Hit Points, it makes a Constitution saving throw (DC 5 plus the damage taken) unless the damage is Radiant or from a Critical Hit. On a successful save, the zombie drops to 1 Hit Point instead.

---
343 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Actions
**Slam.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d8 + 1) Bludgeoning damage.

## Ogre Zombie
*Large Undead, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 8
**HP** 85 (9d10 + 36)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** -2 (8)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 6 | -2 | -2 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 6 | -2 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Immunities** Poison; Exhaustion, Poisoned
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** Understands Common and Giant but can't speak
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Undead Fortitude.** If damage reduces the zombie to 0 Hit Points, it makes a Constitution saving throw (DC 5 plus the damage taken) unless the damage is Radiant or from a Critical Hit. On a successful save, the zombie drops to 1 Hit Point instead.

### Actions
**Slam.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 13 (2d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.

# Animals
## Allosaurus
*Large Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 51 (6d10 + 18)
**Speed** 60 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +5
**Senses** Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 15 (2d10 + 4) Piercing damage.
**Claws.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (1d8 + 4) Slashing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the allosaurus moved 30+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target has the Prone condition, and the allosaurus can make one Bite attack against it.

## Ankylosaurus
*Huge Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 15
**HP** 68 (8d12 + 16)
**Speed** 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +6 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The ankylosaurus makes two Tail attacks.
**Tail.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 9 (1d10 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Ape
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 19 (3d8 + 6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 6 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Athletics +5, Perception +3
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The ape makes two Fist attacks.
**Fist.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.
**Rock (Recharge 6).** *Ranged Attack Roll:* +5, range 25/50 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.

## Archelon
*Huge Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 17
**HP** 90 (12d12 + 12)
**Speed** 20 ft., Swim 80 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

---
344 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 4 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Stealth +5
**Senses** Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The archelon can breathe air and water.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The archelon makes two Bite attacks.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 14 (3d6 + 4) Piercing damage.

## Baboon
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 3 (1d6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 8 | -1 | -1 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 4 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The baboon has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the baboon's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +1, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 (1d4 – 1) Piercing damage.

## Badger
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 5 (1d4 + 3)
**Speed** 20 ft., Burrow 5 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 10 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Resistances** Poison
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Bat
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 1 (1d4-1)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Black Bear
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 19 (3d8 + 6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The bear makes two Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Slashing damage.

## Blood Hawk
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 7 (2d6)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 6 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +6
**Senses** Passive Perception 16
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

---
345 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The hawk has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the hawk's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Beak.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Piercing damage, or 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage if the target is Bloodied.

## Boar
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 13 (2d8 + 4)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Bloodied Fury.** While Bloodied, the boar has Advantage on attack rolls.

### Actions
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d6 + 1) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature and the boar moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Piercing damage and has the Prone condition.

## Brown Bear
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 22 (3d10 + 6)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The bear makes one Bite attack and one Claw attack.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage.
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Slashing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Camel
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 17 (2d10 + 6)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** -1 (9)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +5 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.

## Cat
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 2 (1d4)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 3 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +4 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Jumper.** The cat's jump distance is determined using its Dexterity rather than its Strength.

### Actions
**Scratch.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Slashing damage.

## Constrictor Snake
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 13 (2d10 + 2)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +2, Stealth +4
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

---
346 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage.
**Constrict.** *Strength Saving Throw:* DC 12, one Medium or smaller creature the snake can see within 5 feet. *Failure:* 7 (3d4) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12).

## Crab
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 3 (1d4 + 1)
**Speed** 20 ft., Swim 20 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 6 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Stealth +2
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The crab can breathe air and water.

### Actions
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Bludgeoning damage.

## Crocodile
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 13 (2d10 + 2)
**Speed** 20 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Stealth +2
**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Hold Breath.** The crocodile can hold its breath for 1 hour.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12). While Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition.

## Deer
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 4 (1d8)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 11 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Agile.** The deer doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it moves out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 2 (1d4) Bludgeoning damage.

## Dire Wolf
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 22 (3d10 + 6)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The wolf has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the wolf's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (1d10 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Draft Horse
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 15 (2d10 + 4)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

---
347 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d4 + 4) Bludgeoning damage.

## Eagle
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 4 (1d6 + 1)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 6 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +6
**Senses** Passive Perception 16
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Talons.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 feet. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Slashing damage.

## Elephant
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 76 (8d12 + 24)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** -1 (9)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 22 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The elephant makes two Gore attacks.
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +8, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 15 (2d8 + 6) Piercing damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature and the elephant moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target has the Prone condition.

### Bonus Actions
**Trample.** *Dexterity Saving Throw:* DC 16, one creature within 5 feet that has the Prone condition. *Failure:* 17 (2d10 + 6) Bludgeoning damage. *Success:* Half damage.

## Elk
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 11 (2d10)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the elk moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Bludgeoning damage and has the Prone condition.

## Flying Snake
*Tiny Monstrosity, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 5 (2d4)
**Speed** 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 4 | -3 | -3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Traits
**Flyby.** The snake doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) Poison damage.

## Frog
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 1 (1d4-1)
**Speed** 20 ft., Swim 20 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 1 | -5 | -5 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +1, Stealth +3
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

---
348 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The frog can breathe air and water.
**Standing Leap.** The frog's Long Jump is up to 10 feet and its High Jump is up to 5 feet with or without a running start.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Giant Ape
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 168 (16d12 + 64)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +5 (15)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 23 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 18 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Athletics +9, Perception +4, Survival +4
**Senses** Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 7 (XP 2,900; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The ape makes two Fist attacks.
**Fist.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +9, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 22 (3d10 + 6) Bludgeoning damage.
**Boulder Toss (Recharge 6).** The ape hurls a boulder at a point it can see within 90 feet. *Dexterity Saving Throw:* DC 17, each creature in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point. *Failure:* 24 (7d6) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition. *Success:* Half damage only.

### Bonus Actions
**Leap.** The ape jumps up to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.

## Giant Badger
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 15 (2d8 + 6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Resistances** Poison
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (2d4 + 1) Piercing damage.

## Giant Bat
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 22 (4d10)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Blindsight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Piercing damage.

## Giant Boar
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 42 (5d10 + 15)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +5 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Bloodied Fury.** The boar has Advantage on melee attack rolls while it is Bloodied.

### Actions
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the boar moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) Piercing damage and has the Prone condition.

## Giant Centipede
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 9 (2d6 + 2)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

---
349 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 5 | -3 | -3 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Piercing damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the start of the centipede's next turn.

## Giant Constrictor Snake
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 60 (8d12 + 8)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The snake makes one Bite attack and uses Constrict.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage.
**Constrict.** *Strength Saving Throw:* DC 14, one Large or smaller creature the snake can see within 10 feet. *Failure:* 13 (2d8 + 4) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 14).

## Giant Crab
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 15
**HP** 13 (3d8)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Stealth +3
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The crab can breathe air and water.

### Actions
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d6 + 1) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 11) from one of two claws.

## Giant Crocodile
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 85 (9d12 + 27)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 50 ft.
**Initiative** -1 (9)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 21 | +5 | +5 | **DEX** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Stealth +5
**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Hold Breath.** The crocodile can hold its breath for 1 hour.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The crocodile makes one Bite attack and one Tail attack.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +8, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 21 (3d10 + 5) Piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 15). While Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition and can't be targeted by the crocodile's Tail.
**Tail.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +8, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 18 (3d8 + 5) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Giant Eagle
*Large Celestial, Neutral Good*

**AC** 13
**HP** 26 (4d10 + 4)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 80 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 17 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 8 | -1 | -1 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 10 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +6
**Resistances** Necrotic, Radiant
**Senses** Passive Perception 16
**Languages** Celestial; understands Common and Primordial (Auran) but can't speak them
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The eagle makes two Rend attacks.

---
350 System Reference Document 5.2.1

**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Slashing damage plus 3 (1d6) Radiant damage.

## Giant Elk
*Huge Celestial, Neutral Good*

**AC** 14
**HP** 42 (5d12 + 10)
**Speed** 60 ft.
**Initiative** +6 (16)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +6 | **DEX** 18 | +4 | +6 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 7 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 10 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +4
**Resistances** Necrotic, Radiant
**Senses** Darkvision 90 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** Celestial; understands Common, Elvish, and Sylvan but can't speak them
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Bludgeoning damage plus 5 (2d4) Radiant damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature and the elk moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning damage and has the Prone condition.

## Giant Fire Beetle
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 4 (1d6 + 1)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 8 | -1 | -1 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Resistances** Fire
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Illumination.** The beetle sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +1, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Fire damage.

## Giant Frog
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 18 (4d8)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 12 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +2, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The frog can breathe air and water.
**Standing Leap.** The frog's Long Jump is up to 20 feet and its High Jump is up to 10 feet with or without a running start.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 11).
**Swallow.** The frog swallows a Small or smaller target it is grappling. While swallowed, the target isn't Grappled but has the Blinded and Restrained conditions, and it has Total Cover against attacks and other effects outside the frog. While swallowing the target, the frog can't use Bite, and if the frog dies, the swallowed target is no longer Restrained and can escape from the corpse using 5 feet of movement, exiting with the Prone condition.
At the end of the frog's next turn, the swallowed target takes 5 (2d4) Acid damage. If that damage doesn't kill it, the frog disgorges it, causing it to exit Prone.

## Giant Goat
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 19 (3d10 + 3)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +5 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the goat moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning damage and has the Prone condition.

---
351 System Reference Document 5.2.1

## Giant Hyena
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 45 (6d10 + 12)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Piercing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Rampage (1/Day).** Immediately after dealing damage to a creature that was already Bloodied, the hyena can move up to half its Speed, and it makes one Bite attack.

## Giant Lizard
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 19 (3d10 + 3)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +3 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The lizard can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage.

## Giant Octopus
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 45 (7d10 + 7)
**Speed** 10 ft., Swim 60 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The octopus can breathe only underwater. It can hold its breath for 1 hour outside water.

### Actions
**Tentacles.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 13) from all eight tentacles. While Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition.

### Reactions
**Ink Cloud (1/Day).** *Trigger:* The octopus takes damage while underwater. *Response:* The octopus releases ink that fills a 10-foot Cube centered on itself, and the octopus moves up to its Swim Speed. The Cube is Heavily Obscured for 1 minute or until a strong current or similar effect disperses the ink.

## Giant Owl
*Large Celestial, Neutral*

**AC** 12
**HP** 19 (3d10 + 3)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 10 | +0 | +0 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +4 | **CHA** 10 | +0 | +0 |

**Skills** Perception +6, Stealth +6
**Resistances** Necrotic, Radiant
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 16
**Languages** Celestial; understands Common, Elvish, and Sylvan but can't speak them
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Flyby.** The owl doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Talons.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d10 + 2) Slashing damage.
**Spellcasting.** The owl casts one of the following spells, requiring no spell components and using Wisdom as the spellcasting ability:
**At Will:** *Detect Evil and Good, Detect Magic*
**1/Day:** *Clairvoyance*

---
352 System Reference Document 5.2.1

## Giant Rat
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 7 (2d6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 7 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +5 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The rat has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the rat's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 feet. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage.

## Giant Scorpion
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 15
**HP** 52 (7d10 + 14)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The scorpion makes two Claw attacks and one Sting attack.
**Claw.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 13) from one of two claws.
**Sting.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage plus 11 (2d10) Poison damage.

## Giant Seahorse
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 16 (3d10)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The seahorse can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (2d6 + 2) Bludgeoning damage, or 11 (2d8 + 2) Bludgeoning damage if the seahorse moved 20+ feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit.

### Bonus Actions
**Bubble Dash.** While underwater, the seahorse moves up to half its Swim Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.

## Giant Shark
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 92 (8d12 + 40)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 60 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 23 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 21 | +5 | +5 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The shark can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The shark makes two Bite attacks.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +9 (with Advantage if the target doesn't have all its Hit Points), reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 22 (3d10 + 6) Piercing damage.

## Giant Spider
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 26 (4d10 + 4)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

---
353 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +7
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
**Web Walker.** The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webs, and it knows the location of any other creature in contact with the same web.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage.
**Web (Recharge 5–6).** *Dexterity Saving Throw:* DC 13, one creature the spider can see within 60 feet. *Failure:* The target has the Restrained condition until the web is destroyed (AC 10; HP 5; Vulnerability to Fire damage; Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage).

## Giant Toad
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 39 (6d10 + 6)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Amphibious.** The toad can breathe air and water.
**Standing Leap.** The toad's Long Jump is up to 20 feet and its High Jump is up to 10 feet with or without a running start.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) Poison damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12).
**Swallow.** The toad swallows a Medium or smaller target it is grappling. While swallowed, the target isn't Grappled but has the Blinded and Restrained conditions, and it has Total Cover against attacks and other effects outside the toad. In addition, the target takes 10 (3d6) Acid damage at the end of each of the toad's turns. The toad can have only one target swallowed at a time, and it can't use Bite while it has a swallowed target. If the toad dies, a swallowed creature is no longer Restrained and can escape from the corpse using 5 feet of movement, exiting with the Prone condition.

## Giant Venomous Snake
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 40 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +4 (14)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 10 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 18 | +4 | +4 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d4 + 4) Piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) Poison damage.

## Giant Vulture
*Large Monstrosity, Neutral Evil*

**AC** 10
**HP** 25 (3d10 + 9)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 6 | -2 | -2 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Resistances** Necrotic
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** Understands Common but can't speak
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The vulture has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the vulture's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Gouge.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (2d6 + 2) Piercing damage, and the target has the Poisoned condition until the end of its next turn.

## Giant Wasp
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 22 (5d8)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

---
354 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 10 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Flyby.** The wasp doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Sting.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) Poison damage.

## Giant Weasel
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 9 (2d8)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 11 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 17 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 4 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Acrobatics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage.

## Giant Wolf Spider
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 12 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +7
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) Poison damage.

## Goat
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 4 (1d8)
**Speed** 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 11 | +0 | +2 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Ram.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Bludgeoning damage, or 2 (1d4) Bludgeoning damage if the goat moved 20+ feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit.

## Hawk
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 5 | -3 | -3 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +6
**Senses** Passive Perception 16
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Talons.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Slashing damage.

## Hippopotamus
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 82 (11d10 + 22)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** -2 (8)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 21 | +5 | +7 | **DEX** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Hold Breath.** The hippopotamus can hold its breath for 10 minutes.

---
355 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The hippopotamus makes two Bite attacks.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 16 (2d10 + 5) Piercing damage.

## Hunter Shark
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 45 (6d10 + 12)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The shark can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6 (with Advantage if the target doesn't have all its Hit Points), reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 14 (3d6 + 4) Piercing damage.

## Hyena
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 5 (1d8 + 1)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 11 | +0 | +0 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The hyena has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the hyena's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 3 (1d6) Piercing damage.

## Jackal
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 3 (1d6)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 8 | -1 | -1 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 90 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +1, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 (1d4 – 1) Piercing damage.

## Killer Whale
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 90 (12d12 + 12)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 19 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +4
**Senses** Blindsight 120 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 3 (XP 700; PB +2)

### Traits
**Hold Breath.** The whale can hold its breath for 30 minutes.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 21 (5d6 + 4) Piercing damage.

## Lion
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 22 (4d10)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

---
356 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The lion has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the lion's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.
**Running Leap.** With a 10-foot running start, the lion can Long Jump up to 25 feet.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The lion makes two Rend attacks. It can replace one attack with a use of Roar.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Slashing damage.
**Roar.** *Wisdom Saving Throw:* DC 11, one creature within 15 feet. *Failure:* The target has the Frightened condition until the start of the lion's next turn.

## Lizard
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 2 (1d4)
**Speed** 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The lizard can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Mammoth
*Huge Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 126 (11d12 + 55)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 24 | +7 | +10 | **DEX** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 21 | +5 | +8 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 6 (XP 2,300; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The mammoth makes two Gore attacks.
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +10, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 18 (2d10 + 7) Piercing damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature and the mammoth moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target has the Prone condition.

### Bonus Actions
**Trample.** *Dexterity Saving Throw:* DC 18, one creature within 5 feet that has the Prone condition. *Failure:* 29 (4d10 + 7) Bludgeoning damage. *Success:* Half damage.

## Mastiff
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 5 (1d8 + 1)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +3 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d6 + 1) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Mule
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Traits
**Beast of Burden.** The mule counts as one size larger for the purpose of determining its carrying capacity.

### Actions
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.

## Octopus
*Small Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 3 (1d6)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

---
357 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 4 | -3 | -3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2, Stealth +6
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Compression.** The octopus can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch without expending extra movement to do so.
**Water Breathing.** The octopus can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Tentacles.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Bludgeoning damage.

### Reactions
**Ink Cloud (1/Day).** *Trigger:* A creature ends its turn within 5 feet of the octopus while underwater. *Response:* The octopus releases ink that fills a 5-foot Cube centered on itself, and the octopus moves up to its Swim Speed. The Cube is Heavily Obscured for 1 minute or until a strong current or similar effect disperses the ink.

## Owl
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 3 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +5
**Senses** Darkvision 120 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Flyby.** The owl doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Talons.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Slashing damage.

## Panther
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 13 (3d8)
**Speed** 50 ft., Climb 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +4, Stealth +7
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d6 + 3) Slashing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Nimble Escape.** The panther takes the Disengage or Hide action.

## Piranha
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 9 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The piranha can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5 (with Advantage if the target doesn't have all its Hit Points), reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Plesiosaurus
*Large Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 68 (8d10 + 24)
**Speed** 20 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +4
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Hold Breath.** The plesiosaurus can hold its breath for 1 hour.

---
358 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Piercing damage.

## Polar Bear
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 42 (5d10 + 15)
**Speed** 40 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 20 | +5 | +5 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 16 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +4
**Resistances** Cold
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The bear makes two Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (1d8 + 5) Slashing damage.

## Pony
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 15 | +2 | +4 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Actions
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.

## Pteranodon
*Medium Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 13 (3d8)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 12 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +1
**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Flyby.** The pteranodon doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage.

## Rat
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 9 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Agile.** The rat doesn't provoke an Opportunity Attack when it moves out of an enemy's reach.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Raven
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 2 (1d4)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Mimicry.** The raven can mimic simple sounds it has heard, such as a whisper or chitter. A hearer can discern the sounds are imitations with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check.

### Actions
**Beak.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

---
359 System Reference Document 5.2.1

## Reef Shark
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 22 (4d8 + 4)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +2
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The shark has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the shark's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.
**Water Breathing.** The shark can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (2d4 + 2) Piercing damage.

## Rhinoceros
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 45 (6d10 + 12)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** -1 (9)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 21 | +5 | +5 | **DEX** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Actions
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +7, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 14 (2d8 + 5) Piercing damage. If target is a Large or smaller creature and the rhinoceros moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) Piercing damage and has the Prone condition.

## Riding Horse
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 13 (2d10 + 2)
**Speed** 60 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 16 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Actions
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.

## Saber-Toothed Tiger
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 52 (7d10 + 14)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +6 | **DEX** 17 | +3 | +5 | **CON** 15 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +7
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

### Traits
**Running Leap.** With a 10-foot running start, the tiger can Long Jump up to 25 feet.

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The tiger makes two Rend attacks.
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 11 (2d6 + 4) Slashing damage.

### Bonus Actions
**Nimble Escape.** The tiger takes the Disengage or Hide action.

## Scorpion
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 10 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 8 | -1 | -1 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 9
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Sting.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) Poison damage.

---
360 System Reference Document 5.2.1

## Seahorse
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 20 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 1 | -5 | -5 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Perception +2, Stealth +5
**Senses** Passive Perception 12
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 0; PB +2)

### Traits
**Water Breathing.** The seahorse can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Bubble Dash.** While underwater, the seahorse moves up to its Swim Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.

## Spider
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
**Web Walker.** The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webs, and the spider knows the location of any other creature in contact with the same web.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) Poison damage.

## Swarm of Bats
*Large Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 11 (2d10)
**Speed** 5 ft., Fly 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 5 | -3 | -3 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 10 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny bat. The swarm can't regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.

### Actions
**Bites.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (2d4) Piercing damage, or 2 (1d4) Piercing damage if the swarm is Bloodied.

## Swarm of Insects
*Medium Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 19 (3d8 + 6)
**Speed** 20 ft., Climb or Fly 20 ft. (GM's choice)
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 3 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 13 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 1 | -5 | -5 |

**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Traits
**Spider Climb.** If the swarm has a Climb Speed, the swarm can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny insect. The swarm can't regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.

### Actions
**Bites.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +3, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 6 (2d4 + 1) Poison damage, or 3 (1d4 + 1) Poison damage if the swarm is Bloodied.

---
361 System Reference Document 5.2.1

## Swarm of Piranhas
*Medium Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 28 (8d8 - 8)
**Speed** 5 ft., Swim 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 13 | +1 | +1 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 9 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 7 | -2 | -2 | **CHA** 2 | -4 | -4 |

**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 8
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Traits
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny piranha. The swarm can't regain Hit Points.
**Water Breathing.** The swarm can breathe only underwater.

### Actions
**Bites.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5 (with Advantage if the target doesn't have all its Hit Points), reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (2d4 + 3) Piercing damage, or 5 (1d4 + 3) Piercing damage if the swarm is Bloodied.

## Swarm of Rats
*Medium Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 14 (4d8 - 4)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 9 | -1 | -1 | **DEX** 11 | +0 | +2 | **CON** 9 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Darkvision 30 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny rat. The swarm can't regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.

### Actions
**Bites.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (2d4) Piercing damage, or 2 (1d4) Piercing damage if the swarm is Bloodied.

## Swarm of Ravens
*Medium Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 50 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 6 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 14 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 5 | -3 | -3 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5
**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny raven. The swarm can't regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.

### Actions
**Beaks.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage, or 2 (1d4) Piercing damage if the swarm is Bloodied.
**Cacophony (Recharge 6).** *Wisdom Saving Throw:* DC 10, one creature in the swarm's space. *Failure:* The target has the Deafened condition until the start of the swarm's next turn. While Deafened, the target also has Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls.

## Swarm of Venomous Snakes
*Medium Swarm of Tiny Beasts, Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 36 (8d8)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +4 (14)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 8 | -1 | -1 | **DEX** 18 | +4 | +4 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Resistances** Bludgeoning, Piercing, Slashing
**Immunities** Charmed, Frightened, Grappled, Paralyzed, Petrified, Prone, Restrained, Stunned
**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 2 (XP 450; PB +2)

---
362 System Reference Document 5.2.1

### Traits
**Swarm.** The swarm can occupy another creature's space and vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening large enough for a Tiny snake. The swarm can't regain Hit Points or gain Temporary Hit Points.

### Actions
**Bites.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 8 (1d8 + 4) Piercing damage—or 6 (1d4 + 4) Piercing damage if the swarm is Bloodied—plus 10 (3d6) Poison damage.

## Tiger
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 30 (4d10 + 8)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 17 | +3 | +3 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 14 | +2 | +2 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 8 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +3, Stealth +7
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 1 (XP 200; PB +2)

### Actions
**Rend.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 10 (2d6 + 3) Slashing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

### Bonus Actions
**Nimble Escape.** The tiger takes the Disengage or Hide action.

## Triceratops
*Huge Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 14
**HP** 114 (12d12 + 36)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** -1 (9)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 22 | +6 | +6 | **DEX** 9 | -1 | -1 | **CON** 17 | +3 | +3 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 11 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 5 | -3 | -3 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 5 (XP 1,800; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The triceratops makes two Gore attacks.
**Gore.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +9, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 19 (2d12 + 6) Piercing damage. If the target is Huge or smaller and the triceratops moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 9 (2d8) Piercing damage and has the Prone condition.

## Tyrannosaurus Rex
*Huge Beast (Dinosaur), Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 136 (13d12 + 52)
**Speed** 50 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 25 | +7 | +10 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 19 | +4 | +4 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +4 | **CHA** 9 | -1 | -1 |

**Skills** Perception +4
**Senses** Passive Perception 14
**Languages** None
**CR** 8 (XP 3,900; PB +3)

### Actions
**Multiattack.** The tyrannosaurus makes one Bite attack and one Tail attack.
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +10, reach 10 ft. *Hit:* 33 (4d12 + 7) Piercing damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 17). While Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition and can't be targeted by the tyrannosaurus's Tail.
**Tail.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +10, reach 15 ft. *Hit:* 25 (4d8 + 7) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

## Venomous Snake
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 5 (2d4)
**Speed** 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 2 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 11 | +0 | +0 |
| **INT** 1 | -5 | -5 | **WIS** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Senses** Blindsight 10 ft.; Passive Perception 10
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 4 (1d4 + 2) Piercing damage plus 3 (1d6) Poison damage.

## Vulture
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 10
**HP** 5 (1d8 + 1)
**Speed** 10 ft., Fly 50 ft.
**Initiative** +0 (10)

---
363 System Reference Document 5.2.1

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 7 | -2 | -2 | **DEX** 10 | +0 | +0 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 4 | -3 | -3 |

**Skills** Perception +3
**Senses** Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The vulture has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the vulture's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Beak.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +2, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 2 (1d4) Piercing damage.

## Warhorse
*Large Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 11
**HP** 19 (3d10 + 3)
**Speed** 60 ft.
**Initiative** +1 (11)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 18 | +4 | +4 | **DEX** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CON** 13 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +3 | **CHA** 7 | -2 | -2 |

**Senses** Passive Perception 11
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)

### Actions
**Hooves.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +6, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 9 (2d4 + 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Large or smaller creature and the horse moved 20+ feet straight toward it immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning damage and has the Prone condition.

## Weasel
*Tiny Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 13
**HP** 1 (1d4 - 1)
**Speed** 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
**Initiative** +3 (13)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 3 | -4 | -4 | **DEX** 16 | +3 | +3 | **CON** 8 | -1 | -1 |
| **INT** 2 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 3 | -4 | -4 |

**Skills** Acrobatics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 13
**Languages** None
**CR** 0 (XP 10; PB +2)

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +5, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 1 Piercing damage.

## Wolf
*Medium Beast, Unaligned*

**AC** 12
**HP** 11 (2d8 + 2)
**Speed** 40 ft.
**Initiative** +2 (12)

| | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE | | MOD | SAVE |
|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|:---|---:|---:|
| **STR** 14 | +2 | +2 | **DEX** 15 | +2 | +2 | **CON** 12 | +1 | +1 |
| **INT** 3 | -4 | -4 | **WIS** 12 | +1 | +1 | **CHA** 6 | -2 | -2 |

**Skills** Perception +5, Stealth +4
**Senses** Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 15
**Languages** None
**CR** 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)

### Traits
**Pack Tactics.** The wolf has Advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the wolf's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.

### Actions
**Bite.** *Melee Attack Roll:* +4, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 5 (1d6 + 2) Piercing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it has the Prone condition.

---
364 System Reference Document 5.2.1