# Page 1

| Id20 | Golem | Time | Cost |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1–5 | Clay Golem | 30 days | 65,000 GP |
| 6–17 | Flesh Golem | 60 days | 50,000 GP |
| 18 | Iron Golem | 120 days | 100,000 GP |
| 19–20 | Stone Golem | 90 days | 80,000 GP |

## Manual of Quickness of Action
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

This book contains coordination and balance exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Dexterity increases by 2, to a maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic but regains it in a century.

## Marvelous Pigments
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

This fine wooden box contains 1d4 pots of pigment and a brush (weighing 1 pound in total).

Using the brush and expending 1 pot of pigment, you can paint any number of three-dimensional objects and terrain features (such as walls, doors, trees, flowers, weapons, webs, and pits), provided these elements are all confined to a 20-foot Cube. The effort takes 10 minutes (regardless of the number of elements you create), during which time you must remain in the Cube, and requires Concentration. If your Concentration is broken or you leave the Cube before the work is done, all the painted elements vanish, and the pot of pigment is wasted.

When the work is done, all the painted objects and terrain features become real. Thus, painting a door on a wall creates an actual door, which can be opened to whatever is beyond. Painting a pit creates a real pit, the entire depth of which must lie within the 20-foot Cube.

No object created by a pot of pigment can have a value greater than 25 GP, and the total value of all objects created by a pot of pigment can't exceed 500 GP. If you paint objects of greater value (such as a large pile of gold), they look authentic, but close inspection reveals they're made from paste, cookies, or some other worthless material.

If you paint a form of energy such as fire or lightning, the energy dissipates as soon as you complete the painting, doing no harm.

## Medallion of Thoughts
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

The medallion has 5 charges. While wearing it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Detect Thoughts (save DC 13) from it. The medallion regains 1d4 expended charges daily at dawn.

## Mirror of Life Trapping
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

When this 4-foot-tall, 2-foot-wide mirror is viewed indirectly, its surface shows faint images of creatures. The mirror weighs 50 pounds, and it has AC 11, HP 10, Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage, and Vulnerability to Bludgeoning damage. It shatters and is destroyed when reduced to 0 Hit Points.

If the mirror is hanging on a vertical surface and you are within 5 feet of it, you can take a Magic action and use a command word to activate it. It remains activated until you take a Magic action and repeat the command word to deactivate it.

Any creature other than you that sees its reflection in the activated mirror while within 30 feet of the mirror must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be trapped, along with anything it is wearing or carrying, in one of the mirror's twelve extradimensional cells. A creature that knows the mirror's nature makes the save with Advantage, and Constructs succeed on the save automatically.

An extradimensional cell is an infinite expanse filled with thick fog that reduces visibility to 10 feet. Creatures trapped in the mirror's cells don't age, and they don't need to eat, drink, or sleep. A creature trapped within a cell can escape using magic that permits planar travel. Otherwise, the creature is confined to the cell until freed.

If the mirror traps a creature but its twelve extradimensional cells are already occupied, the mirror frees one trapped creature at random to accommodate the new prisoner. A freed creature appears in an unoccupied space within sight of the mirror but facing away from it. If the mirror is shattered, all creatures it contains are freed and appear in unoccupied spaces near it.

While within 5 feet of the mirror, you can take a Magic action to name one creature trapped in it or call out a particular cell by number. The creature named or contained in the named cell appears as an image on the mirror's surface. You and the creature can then communicate.

In a similar way, you can take a Magic action and use a second command word to free one creature trapped in the mirror. The freed creature appears, along with its possessions, in the unoccupied space nearest to the mirror and facing away from it.

Placing the mirror inside an extradimensional space created by a Bag of Holding, Portable Hole, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind Total Cover is sucked through it to a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can't be reopened.

---
# Page 2

## Mithral Armor
*Armor (Any Medium or Heavy, Except Hide Armor), Uncommon*

Mithral is a light, flexible metal. Armor made of this substance can be worn under normal clothes. If the armor normally imposes Disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks or has a Strength requirement, the mithral version of the armor doesn't.

## Mysterious Deck
*Wondrous Item, Legendary*

Usually found in a box or pouch, this deck contains a number of cards made of ivory or vellum. Most (75 percent) of these decks have thirteen cards, but some have twenty-two. Use the appropriate column of the Mysterious Deck table when randomly determining cards drawn from the deck.

Before you draw a card, you must declare how many cards you intend to draw and then draw them randomly. Any cards drawn in excess of this number have no effect. Otherwise, as soon as you draw a card from the deck, its magic takes effect. You must draw each card no more than 1 hour after the previous draw. If you fail to draw the chosen number, the remaining number of cards fly from the deck on their own and take effect all at once.

Once a card is drawn, it disappears. Unless the card is the Fool or Jester, the card reappears in the deck, making it possible to draw the same card twice. (Once the Fool or Jester has left the deck, reroll on the table if that card comes up again.)

### Mysterious Deck

| Id100 (13-Card Deck) | Id100 (22-Card Deck) | Card |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| — | 01–05 | Balance |
| — | 06–10 | Comet |
| — | 11–14 | Donjon |
| 01–08 | 15–18 | Euryale |
| — | 19–23 | Fates |
| 09–16 | 24–27 | Flames |
| — | 28–31 | Fool |
| — | 32–36 | Gem |
| 17–24 | 37–41 | Jester |
| 25–32 | 42–46 | Key |
| 33–40 | 47–51 | Knight |
| 41–48 | 52–56 | Moon |
| — | 57–60 | Puzzle |
| 49–56 | 61–64 | Rogue |
| 57–64 | 65–68 | Ruin |
| — | 69–73 | Sage |
| 65–72 | 74–77 | Skull |
| 73–80 | 78–82 | Star |
| 81–88 | 83–87 | Sun |
| — | 88–91 | Talons |
| 89–96 | 92–96 | Throne |
| 97–00 | 97–00 | Void |

Each card's effect is described below.

**Balance.** You can increase one of your ability scores by 2, to a maximum of 22, provided you also decrease another one of your ability scores by 2. You can't decrease an ability that has a score of 5 or lower. Alternatively, you can choose not to adjust your ability scores, in which case this card has no effect.

**Comet.** The next time you enter combat against one or more Hostile creatures, you can select one of them as your foe when you roll Initiative. If you reduce your foe to 0 Hit Points during that combat, you have Advantage on Death Saving Throws for 1 year. If someone else reduces your chosen foe to 0 Hit Points or you don't choose a foe, this card has no effect.

**Donjon.** You disappear and become entombed in a state of suspended animation in an extradimensional sphere. Everything you're wearing and carrying disappears with you except for Artifacts, which stay behind in the space you occupied when you disappeared. You remain imprisoned until you are found and removed from the sphere. You can't be located by any Divination magic, but a Wish spell can reveal the location of your prison. You draw no more cards.

**Euryale.** The card's medusa-like visage curses you. You take a −2 penalty to saving throws while cursed in this way. Only a god or the magic of the Fates card can end this curse.

**Fates.** Reality's fabric unravels and spins anew, allowing you to avoid or erase one event as if it never happened. You can use the card's magic as soon as you draw the card or at any other time before you die.

**Flames.** A powerful devil becomes your enemy. The devil seeks your ruin and torments you, savoring your suffering before attempting to slay you. This enmity lasts until either you or the devil dies.

**Fool.** You have Disadvantage on D20 Tests for the next 72 hours. Draw another card; this draw doesn't count as one of your declared draws.

**Gem.** Twenty-five pieces of jewelry worth 2,000 GP each or fifty gems worth 1,000 GP each appear at your feet.

---
# Page 3

**Jester.** You have Advantage on D20 Tests for the next 72 hours, or you can draw two additional cards beyond your declared draws.

**Key.** A Rare or rarer magic weapon with which you are proficient appears on your person. The GM chooses the weapon.

**Knight.** You gain the service of a Knight, who magically appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 30 feet of yourself. The knight has the same alignment as you and serves you loyally until death, believing the two of you have been drawn together by fate. Work with your GM to create a name and backstory for this NPC. The GM can use a different stat block to represent the knight, as desired.

**Moon.** You gain the ability to cast Wish 1d3 times.

**Puzzle.** Permanently reduce your Intelligence or Wisdom by 1d4 + 1 (to a minimum score of 1). You can draw one additional card beyond your declared draws.

**Rogue.** An NPC of the GM's choice becomes Hostile toward you. You don't know the identity of this NPC until they or someone else reveals it. Nothing less than a Wish spell or divine intervention can end the NPC's hostility toward you.

**Ruin.** All forms of wealth that you carry or own, other than magic items, are lost to you. Portable property vanishes. Businesses, buildings, and land you own are lost in a way that alters reality the least. Any documentation that proves you should own something lost to this card also disappears.

**Sage.** At any time you choose within one year of drawing this card, you can ask a question in meditation and mentally receive a truthful answer to that question.

**Skull.** An Avatar of Death (see the accompanying stat block) appears in an unoccupied space as close to you as possible. The avatar targets only you with its attacks, appearing as a ghostly skeleton clad in a tattered black robe and carrying a spectral scythe. The avatar disappears when it drops to 0 Hit Points or you die. If an ally of yours deals damage to the avatar, that ally summons another Avatar of Death. The new avatar appears in an unoccupied space as close to that ally as possible and targets only that ally with its attacks. You and your allies can each summon only one avatar as a consequence of this draw. A creature slain by an avatar can't be restored to life.

**Star.** Increase one of your ability scores by 2, to a maximum of 24.

**Sun.** A magic item (chosen by the GM) appears on your person. In addition, you gain 10 Temporary Hit Points daily at dawn until you die.

**Talons.** Every magic item you wear or carry disintegrates. Artifacts in your possession vanish instead.

**Throne.** You gain proficiency and Expertise in your choice of History, Insight, Intimidation, or Persuasion. In addition, you gain rightful ownership of a small keep somewhere in the world. However, the keep is currently home to one or more monsters, which must be cleared out before you can claim the keep as yours.

**Void.** Your soul is drawn from your body and contained in an object in a place of the GM's choice. One or more powerful beings guard the place. While your soul is trapped in this way, your body is inert, ceases aging, and requires no food, air, or water. A Wish spell can't return your soul to your body, but the spell reveals the location of the object that holds your soul. You draw no more cards.

> ### Avatar of Death
> *Medium Undead, Neutral evil*
> ___
> **AC** 20
> **Initiative** +3 (13)
> **HP** Half the HP maximum of its summoner
> **Speed** 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (hover)
> ___
>| | STR | DEX | CON | INT | WIS | CHA |
>| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
>| MOD | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 |
>| SAVE | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 | +3 |
>| SCORE | 16 | 16 | 16 | 16 | 16 | 16 |
> ___
> **Immunities** Necrotic, Poison; Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned, Unconscious
> **Senses** Truesight 60 ft., Passive Perception 13
> **Languages** All languages known to its summoner
> **CR** None (XP 0; PB equals its summoner's)
> ___
> #### Traits
> **Incorporeal Movement.** The avatar can move through other creatures and objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) Force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.
> #### Actions
> **Multiattack.** The avatar makes a number of Reaping Scythe attacks equal to half the summoner's Proficiency Bonus (rounded up).
>
> **Reaping Scythe.** *Melee Attack Roll:* Automatic hit, reach 5 ft. *Hit:* 7 (1d8 + 3) Slashing damage plus 4 (1d8) Necrotic damage.

## Necklace of Adaptation
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this necklace, you can breathe normally in any environment, and you have Advantage on saving throws made to avoid or end the Poisoned condition.

---
# Page 4

## Necklace of Fireballs
*Wondrous Item, Rare*

This necklace has 1d6 + 3 beads hanging from it. You can take a Magic action to detach a bead and throw it up to 60 feet away. When it reaches the end of its trajectory, the bead detonates as a level 3 Fireball (save DC 15).

You can hurl multiple beads, or even the whole necklace, at one time. When you do so, increase the damage of the Fireball by 1d6 for each bead after the first (maximum 12d6).

## Necklace of Prayer Beads
*Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Cleric, Druid, or Paladin)*

This necklace has 1d4 + 2 magic beads made from aquamarine, black pearl, or topaz. It also has many nonmagical beads made from stones such as amber, bloodstone, citrine, coral, jade, pearl, or quartz. If a magic bead is removed from the necklace, that bead loses its magic.

Six types of magic beads exist. The GM decides the type of each bead on the necklace or determines it randomly by rolling on the table below. A necklace can have more than one bead of the same type. To use one, you must be wearing the necklace. Each bead contains a spell that you can cast from it as a Bonus Action (using your spell save DC if a save is necessary). Once a magic bead's spell is cast, that bead can't be used again until the next dawn.

| Id20 | Bead | Spell |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1–6 | Bead of Blessing | Bless |
| 7–12 | Bead of Curing | Cure Wounds (level 2 version) |
| 13–16 | Bead of Favor | Greater Restoration |
| 17–18 | Bead of Smiting | Shining Smite |
| 19 | Bead of Summons | Guardian of Faith |
| 20 | Bead of Wind Walking | Wind Walk |

## Nine Lives Stealer
*Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.

**Life Stealing.** The weapon has 1d8 + 1 charges. When you attack a creature that has fewer than 100 Hit Points with this weapon and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, the creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be slain instantly as the sword tears its life force from its body. Constructs and Undead succeed on the save automatically. The weapon loses 1 charge if the creature is slain. When the weapon has no charges remaining, it loses this property.

## Oathbow
*Weapon (Longbow or Shortbow), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

When you nock an arrow on this bow, it whispers in Elvish, "Swift defeat to my enemies." When you use this weapon to make a ranged attack, you can utter or sign the following command words: "Swift death to you who have wronged me.” The target of your attack becomes your sworn enemy until it dies or until dawn 7 days later. You can have only one such sworn enemy at a time. When your sworn enemy dies, you can choose a new one after the next dawn.

When you make a ranged attack roll with this weapon against your sworn enemy, you have Advantage on the roll. In addition, your target gains no benefit from Half Cover or Three-Quarters Cover, and you suffer no Disadvantage due to long range. If the attack hits, your sworn enemy takes an extra 3d6 Piercing damage.

While your sworn enemy lives, you have Disadvantage on attack rolls with all other weapons.

## Oil of Etherealness
*Potion, Rare*

One vial of this oil can cover one Medium or smaller creature, along with the equipment it's wearing and carrying (one additional vial is required for each size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the effect of the Etherealness spell for 1 hour.

Beads of this cloudy, gray oil form on the outside of its container and quickly evaporate.

## Oil of Sharpness
*Potion, Very Rare*

One vial of this oil can coat one Melee weapon or twenty pieces of ammunition, but only ammunition and Melee weapons that are nonmagical and deal Slashing or Piercing damage are affected. Applying the oil takes 1 minute, after which the oil magically seeps into whatever it coats, turning the coated weapon into a +3 Weapon or the coated ammunition into +3 Ammunition.

This clear, gelatinous oil sparkles with tiny, ultrathin silver shards.

## Oil of Slipperiness
*Potion, Uncommon*

One vial of this oil can cover one Medium or smaller creature, along with the equipment it's wearing and carrying (one additional vial is required for each size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the effect of the Freedom of Movement spell for 8 hours.

Alternatively, the oil can be poured on the ground as a Magic action, where it covers a 10-foot square,

---
# Page 5

duplicating the effect of the Grease spell in that area for 8 hours.

This sticky, black unguent is thick and heavy, but it flows quickly when poured.

## Pearl of Power
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

While this pearl is on your person, you can take a Magic action to regain one expended spell slot of level 3 or lower. Once you use the pearl, it can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Periapt of Health
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this pendant, you can take a Magic action to regain 2d4 + 2 Hit Points. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn. In addition, you have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned condition while you wear this pendant.

## Periapt of Proof against Poison
*Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This delicate silver chain has a brilliant-cut black gem pendant. While you wear it, you have Immunity to the Poisoned condition and Poison damage.

## Periapt of Wound Closure
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this pendant, you gain the following benefits.

**Life Preservation.** Whenever you make a Death Saving Throw, you can change a roll of 9 or lower to a 10, turning a failed save into a successful one.

**Natural Healing Boost.** Whenever you roll a Hit Point Die to regain Hit Points, double the number of Hit Points it restores.

## Philter of Love
*Potion, Uncommon*

The next time you see a creature within 10 minutes after drinking this philter, you are charmed by that creature and have the Charmed condition for 1 hour.

This rose-hued, effervescent liquid contains one easy-to-miss bubble shaped like a heart.

## Pipes of Haunting
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon*

These pipes have 3 charges and regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. You can take a Magic action to play them and expend 1 charge to create an eerie, spellbinding tune. Each creature of your choice within 30 feet of you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened condition for 1 minute. A creature that fails the save repeats it at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that succeeds on its save is immune to the effect of these pipes for 24 hours.

## Pipes of the Sewers
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While these pipes are on your person, ordinary rats and giant rats are Indifferent toward you and won't attack you unless you threaten or harm them.

The pipes have 3 charges and regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. If you play the pipes as a Magic action, you can take a Bonus Action to expend 1 to 3 charges, calling forth one Swarm of Rats with each expended charge if enough rats are within half a mile of you to be called in this fashion (as determined by the GM). If there aren't enough rats to form a swarm, the charge is wasted. Called swarms move toward the music by the shortest available route but aren't under your control otherwise.

Whenever a Swarm of Rats that isn't under another creature's control comes within 30 feet of you while you are playing the pipes, the swarm makes a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the swarm behaves as it normally would and can't be swayed by the pipes' music for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the swarm is swayed by the pipes' music and becomes Friendly to you and your allies for as long as you continue to play the pipes each round as a Magic action. A Friendly swarm obeys your commands. If you issue no commands to a Friendly swarm, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. If a Friendly swarm starts its turn more than 30 feet away from you, your control over that swarm ends, and the swarm behaves as it normally would and can't be swayed by the pipes' music for the next 24 hours.

## Plate Armor of Etherealness
*Armor (Half Plate Armor or Plate Armor), Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

While you're wearing this armor, you can take a Magic action and use a command word to gain the effect of the Etherealness spell. The spell ends immediately if you remove the armor or take a Magic action to repeat the command word. This property of the armor can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Portable Hole
*Wondrous Item, Rare*

This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a circular sheet 6 feet in diameter.

You can take a Magic action to unfold a Portable Hole and place it on or against a solid surface, whereupon the Portable Hole creates an

---
# Page 6

extradimensional hole 10 feet deep. The cylindrical space within the hole exists on a different plane of existence, so it can't be used to create open passages. Any creature inside an open Portable Hole can exit the hole by climbing out of it.

You can take a Magic action to close a Portable Hole by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and folding it up. Folding the cloth closes the hole, and any creatures or objects within remain in the extradimensional space. No matter what's in it, the hole weighs next to nothing.

If the hole is folded up, a creature within the hole's extradimensional space can take an action to make a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful check, the creature forces its way out and appears within 5 feet of the Portable Hole. A closed Portable Hole holds enough air for 1 hour of breathing, divided by the number of breathing creatures inside.

Placing a Portable Hole inside an extradimensional space created by a Bag of Holding, Handy Haversack, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind Total Cover is sucked through it and deposited in a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can't be reopened.

## Potion of Animal Friendship
*Potion, Uncommon*

When you drink this potion, you can cast the level 3 version of the Animal Friendship spell (save DC 13).

Agitating this potion's muddy liquid brings little bits into view: a fish scale, a hummingbird feather, a cat claw, or a squirrel hair.

## Potion of Clairvoyance
*Potion, Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Clairvoyance spell (no Concentration required).

An eyeball bobs in this potion's yellowish liquid but vanishes when the potion is opened.

## Potion of Climbing
*Potion, Common*

When you drink this potion, you gain a Climb Speed equal to your Speed for 1 hour. During this time, you have Advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks to climb.

This potion is separated into brown, silver, and gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the bottle fails to mix the colors.

## Potion of Diminution
*Potion, Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain the "reduce" effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no Concentration required).

The red in the potion's liquid continuously contracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process.

## Potion of Flying
*Potion, Very Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain a Fly Speed equal to your Speed for 1 hour and can hover. If you're in the air when the potion wears off, you fall unless you have some other means of staying aloft.

This potion's clear liquid floats at the top of its container and has cloudy white impurities drifting in it.

## Potion of Gaseous Form
*Potion, Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Gaseous Form spell for 1 hour (no Concentration required) or until you end the effect as a Bonus Action.

This potion's container seems to hold fog that moves and pours like water.

## Potion of Giant Strength
*Potion, Rarity Varies*

When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes for 1 hour. The type of giant determines the score (see the table below). The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score.

This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of light resembling a giant's fingernail.

| Potion | Str. | Rarity |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Potion of Giant Strength (hill) | 21 | Uncommon |
| Potion of Giant Strength (frost or stone) | 23 | Rare |
| Potion of Giant Strength (fire) | 25 | Rare |
| Potion of Giant Strength (cloud) | 27 | Very Rare |
| Potion of Giant Strength (storm) | 29 | Legendary |

## Potion of Growth
*Potion, Uncommon*

When you drink this potion, you gain the “enlarge" effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 10 minutes (no Concentration required).

The red in the potion's liquid continuously expands from a tiny bead to color the clear liquid around it and then contracts. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process.

---
# Page 7

## Potions of Healing
*Potion, Rarity Varies*

You regain Hit Points when you drink this potion. The number of Hit Points depends on the potion's rarity, as shown in the table below.

Whatever its potency, the potion's red liquid glimmers when agitated.

| Potion | HP Regained | Rarity |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Potion of Healing | 2d4 + 2 | Common |
| Potion of Healing (greater) | 4d4 + 4 | Uncommon |
| Potion of Healing (superior) | 8d4 + 8 | Rare |
| Potion of Healing (supreme) | 10d4 + 20 | Very Rare |

## Potion of Heroism
*Potion, Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain 10 Temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour. For the same duration, you are under the effect of the Bless spell (no Concentration required).

This potion's blue liquid bubbles and steams as if boiling.

## Potion of Invisibility
*Potion, Rare*

This potion's container looks empty but feels as though it holds liquid. When you drink the potion, you have the Invisible condition for 1 hour. The effect ends early if you make an attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.

## Potion of Invulnerability
*Potion, Rare*

For 1 minute after you drink this potion, you have Resistance to all damage.

This potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron.

## Potion of Longevity
*Potion, Very Rare*

When you drink this potion, your physical age is reduced by 1d6 + 6 years, to a minimum of 13 years. Each time you subsequently drink a Potion of Longevity, there is 10 percent cumulative chance that you instead age by 1d6 + 6 years.

Suspended in this amber liquid is a tiny heart that, against all reason, is still beating. These ingredients vanish when the potion is opened.

## Potion of Mind Reading
*Potion, Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Detect Thoughts spell (save DC 13) for 10 minutes (no Concentration required).

This potion's dense, purple liquid has an ovoid cloud of pink floating in it.

## Potion of Poison
*Potion, Uncommon*

This concoction looks, smells, and tastes like a Potion of Healing or another beneficial potion. However, it is actually poison masked by illusion magic. Identify reveals its true nature.

If you drink this potion, you take 4d6 Poison damage and must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.

## Potion of Resistance
*Potion, Uncommon*

When you drink this potion, you have Resistance to one type of damage for 1 hour. The GM chooses the type or determines it randomly by rolling on the following table.

| Id10 | Damage Type | Id10 | Damage Type |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1 | Acid | 6 | Necrotic |
| 2 | Cold | 7 | Poison |
| 3 | Fire | 8 | Psychic |
| 4 | Force | 9 | Radiant |
| 5 | Lightning | 10 | Thunder |

## Potion of Speed
*Potion, Very Rare*

When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the Haste spell for 1 minute (no Concentration required) without suffering the wave of lethargy that typically occurs when the effect ends.

This potion's yellow fluid is streaked with black and swirls on its own.

## Potion of Vitality
*Potion, Very Rare*

When you drink this potion, it removes any Exhaustion levels you have and ends the Poisoned condition on you. For the next 24 hours, you regain the maximum number of Hit Points for any Hit Point Die you spend.

This potion's crimson liquid regularly pulses with dull light, calling to mind a heartbeat.

## Potion of Water Breathing
*Potion, Uncommon*

You can breathe underwater for 24 hours after drinking this potion.

---
# Page 8

This potion's cloudy green fluid smells of the sea and has a jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.

## Quarterstaff of the Acrobat
*Weapon (Quarterstaff), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon.

While holding this weapon, you can cause it to emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bonus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can extinguish the light as a Bonus Action.

While holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod (for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far as the surrounding space allows.

In certain forms, the weapon has the following additional properties.

**Acrobatic Assist (Quarterstaff and 10-Foot Pole Forms Only).** While holding this weapon, you have Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks.

**Attack Deflection (Quarterstaff Form Only).** When you are hit by an attack while holding the weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Armor Class against the triggering attack, potentially causing the attack to miss you. You can't use this property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.

**Ranged Weapon (Quarterstaff Form Only).** This weapon has the Thrown property with a normal range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet. Immediately after you make a ranged attack with the weapon, it flies back to your hand.

## Ring of Animal Influence
*Ring, Rare*

This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can expend 1 charge to cast one of the following spells (save DC 13) from it:

*   Animal Friendship
*   Fear (affects Beasts only)
*   Speak with Animals

## Ring of Djinni Summoning
*Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic action to summon a particular Djinni from the Elemental Plane of Air. The djinni appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 120 feet of yourself. It remains as long as you maintain Concentration, to a maximum of 1 hour, or until it drops to 0 Hit Points.

While summoned, the djinni is Friendly to you and your allies, and it obeys your commands. If you fail to command it, the djinni defends itself against attackers but takes no other actions.

After the djinni departs, it can't be summoned again for 24 hours, and the ring becomes nonmagical if the djinni dies.

Rings of Djinni Summoning are often created by the djinn they summon and given to mortals as gifts of friendship or tokens of esteem.

## Ring of Elemental Command
*Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

Each Ring of Elemental Command is linked to one of the four Elemental Planes. The GM chooses or randomly determines the linked plane. For example, a Ring of Elemental Command (air) is linked to the Elemental Plane of Air.

Every Ring of Elemental Command has the following two properties:

**Elemental Bane.** While wearing the ring, you have Advantage on attack rolls against Elementals and they have Disadvantage on attack rolls against you.

**Elemental Compulsion.** While wearing the ring, you can take a Magic action to try to compel an Elemental you see within 60 feet of yourself. The Elemental makes a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the Elemental has the Charmed condition until the start your next turn, and you determine what it does with its move and action on its next turn.

**Elemental Focus.** While wearing the ring, you benefit from additional properties corresponding to the ring's linked Elemental Plane:

**Air.** You know Auran, you have Resistance to Lightning damage, and you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed and can hover.

**Earth.** You know Terran, and you have Resistance to Acid damage. Terrain composed of rubble, rocks, or dirt isn't Difficult Terrain for you. In addition, you can move through solid earth or rock as if those areas were Difficult Terrain without disturbing the matter through which you pass. If you end your turn in solid earth or rock, you are shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you last occupied.

**Fire.** You know Ignan, and you have Immunity to Fire damage.

**Water.** You know Aquan, you gain a Swim Speed of 60 feet, and you can breathe underwater.

**Spellcasting.** The ring has 5 charges and regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can cast a spell from it. Choose the spell from the list of available spells based on the Elemental Plane the ring is linked to, as shown in the following table. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell, which has a save DC of 18.

---
# Page 9

| Plane | Spells (Charges) |
| :--- | :--- |
| Air | Chain Lightning (3 charges), Feather Fall (0 charges), Gust of Wind (2 charges), Wind Wall (1 charge) |
| Earth | Earthquake (5 charges), Stone Shape (2 charges), Stoneskin (3 charges), Wall of Stone (3 charges) |
| Fire | Burning Hands (1 charge), Fireball (2 charges), Fire Storm (4 charges), Wall of Fire (3 charges) |
| Water | Create or Destroy Water (1 charge), Ice Storm (2 charges), Tsunami (5 charges), Wall of Ice (3 charges), Water Walk (2 charges) |

## Ring of Evasion
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. When you fail a Dexterity saving throw while wearing the ring, you can take a Reaction to expend 1 charge to succeed on that save instead.

## Ring of Feather Falling
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

When you fall while wearing this ring, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.

## Ring of Free Action
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While you wear this ring, Difficult Terrain doesn't cost you extra movement. In addition, magic can neither reduce any of your Speeds nor cause you to have the Paralyzed or Restrained condition.

## Ring of Invisibility
*Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic action to give yourself the Invisible condition. You remain Invisible until the ring is removed or until you take a Bonus Action to become visible again.

## Ring of Jumping
*Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can cast Jump from it, but can target only yourself when you do so.

## Ring of Mind Shielding
*Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it.

You can take a Magic action to cause the ring to become imperceptible until you take another Magic action to make it perceptible, until you remove the ring, or until you die.

If you die while wearing the ring, your soul enters it, unless it already houses a soul. You can remain in the ring or depart for the afterlife. As long as your soul is in the ring, you can telepathically communicate with any creature wearing it. A wearer can't prevent this telepathic communication.

## Ring of Protection
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class and saving throws while wearing this ring.

## Ring of Regeneration
*Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you regain 1d6 Hit Points every 10 minutes if you have at least 1 Hit Point. If you lose a body part, the ring causes the missing part to regrow and return to full functionality after 1d6 + 1 days if you have at least 1 Hit Point the whole time.

## Ring of Resistance
*Ring, Rare*

You have Resistance to one damage type while wearing this ring. The gemstone in the ring indicates the type, which the GM chooses or determines randomly by rolling on the following table.

| Id10 | Damage Type | Gemstone |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1 | Acid | Pearl |
| 2 | Cold | Tourmaline |
| 3 | Fire | Garnet |
| 4 | Force | Sapphire |
| 5 | Lightning | Citrine |
| 6 | Necrotic | Jet |
| 7 | Poison | Amethyst |
| 8 | Psychic | Jade |
| 9 | Radiant | Topaz |
| 10 | Thunder | Spinel |

## Ring of Shooting Stars
*Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You can cast Dancing Lights or Light from the ring.

The ring has 6 charges and regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn. You can expend its charges to use the properties below.

**Faerie Fire.** You can expend 1 charge to cast Faerie Fire from the ring.

**Lightning Spheres.** You can expend 2 charges as a Magic action to create up to four 3-foot-diameter spheres of lightning.

Each sphere appears in an unoccupied space you can see within 120 feet of yourself. The spheres

---
# Page 10

last as long as you maintain Concentration, up to 1 minute. Each sphere sheds Dim Light in a 30-foot radius.

As a Bonus Action, you can move each sphere up to 30 feet, but no farther than 120 feet away from yourself. The first time the sphere comes within 5 feet of a creature other than you that isn't behind Total Cover, the sphere discharges lightning at that creature and disappears. That creature makes a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes Lightning damage based on the number of spheres you created, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage.

| Number of Spheres | Lightning Damage | Number of Spheres | Lightning Damage |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 1 | 4d12 | 3 | 2d6 |
| 2 | 5d4 | 4 | 2d4 |

**Shooting Stars.** You can expend 1 to 3 charges as a Magic action. For every charge you expend, you launch a glowing mote of light from the ring at a point you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from that point is showered in sparks and makes a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.

## Ring of Spell Storing
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This ring stores spells cast into it, holding them until the attuned wearer uses them. The ring can store up to 5 levels worth of spells at a time. When found, it contains 1d6 – 1 levels of stored spells chosen by the GM.

Any creature can cast a spell of level 1 through 5 into the ring by touching the ring as the spell is cast. The spell has no effect other than to be stored in the ring. If the ring can't hold the spell, the spell is expended without effect. The level of the slot used to cast the spell determines how much space it uses.

While wearing this ring, you can cast any spell stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the original caster but is otherwise treated as if you cast the spell. The spell cast from the ring is no longer stored in it, freeing up space.

## Ring of Spell Turning
*Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you have Advantage on saving throws against spells. If you succeed on the save for a spell of level 7 or lower, the spell has no effect on you. If that spell targeted only you and didn't create an area of effect, you can take a Reaction to deflect the spell back at the spell's caster; the caster must make a saving throw against the spell using their own spell save DC.

## Ring of Swimming
*Ring, Uncommon*

You have a Swim Speed of 40 feet while wearing this ring.

## Ring of Telekinesis
*Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can cast Telekinesis from it.

## Ring of the Ram
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This ring has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 to 3 charges to make a ranged spell attack against one creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The ring produces a spectral ram's head and makes its attack roll with a +7 bonus. On a hit, for each charge you spend, the target takes 2d10 Force damage and is pushed 5 feet away from you.

Alternatively, you can expend 1 to 3 of the ring's charges as a Magic action to try to break a nonmagical object you can see within 60 feet of yourself that isn't being worn or carried. The ring makes a Strength check with a +5 bonus for each charge you spend.

## Ring of Three Wishes
*Ring, Legendary*

While wearing this ring, you can expend 1 of its 3 charges to cast Wish from it. The ring becomes non-magical when you use the last charge.

## Ring of Warmth
*Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

If you take Cold damage while wearing this ring, the ring reduces the damage you take by 2d8.

In addition, while wearing this ring, you and everything you wear and carry are unharmed by temperatures of 0 degrees Fahrenheit or lower.

## Ring of Water Walking
*Ring, Uncommon*

While wearing this ring, you cast Water Walk from it, targeting only yourself.

## Ring of X-ray Vision
*Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic action to gain X-ray vision with a range of 30 feet for 1 minute. To you, solid objects within that radius appear transparent and don't prevent light from passing through them. The vision can penetrate 1

---
# Page 11

foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or up to 3 feet of wood or dirt. Thicker substances or a thin sheet of lead block the vision.

Whenever you use the ring again before taking a Long Rest, you must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion level.

## Robe of Eyes
*Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This robe is adorned with eyelike patterns. While you wear the robe, you gain the following benefits:

**All-Around Vision.** The robe gives you Advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

**Special Senses.** You have Darkvision and Truesight, both with a range of 120 feet.

**Drawbacks.** A Light spell cast on the robe or a Daylight spell cast within 5 feet of the robe gives you the Blinded condition for 1 minute. At the end of each of your turns, you make a Constitution saving throw (DC 11 for Light or DC 15 for Daylight), ending the condition on yourself on a success.

## Robe of Scintillating Colors
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This robe has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While you wear it, you can take a Magic action and expend 1 charge to cause the garment to display a shifting pattern of dazzling hues until the end of your next turn. During this time, the robe sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet, and creatures that can see you have Disadvantage on attack rolls against you. Any creature in the Bright Light that can see you when the robe's power is activated must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have the Stunned condition until the effect ends.

## Robe of Stars
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This black or dark-blue robe is embroidered with small white or silver stars. You gain a +1 bonus to saving throws while you wear it.

Six stars, located on the robe's upper-front portion, are particularly large. While wearing this robe, you can take a Magic action to remove one of the stars and expend it to cast the level 5 version of Magic Missile. Daily at dusk, 1d6 removed stars reappear on the robe.

While you wear the robe, you can take a Magic action to enter the Astral Plane along with everything you are wearing and carrying. You remain there until you take a Magic action to return to the plane you were on. You reappear in the last space you occupied or, if that space is occupied, the nearest unoccupied space.

## Robe of the Archmagi
*Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

This elegant garment is made from exquisite cloth and adorned with runes.
You gain these benefits while wearing the robe.

**Armor.** If you aren't wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 15 plus your Dexterity modifier.

**Magic Resistance.** You have Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

**War Mage.** Your spell save DC and spell attack bonus each increase by 2.

## Robe of Useful Items
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon*

This robe has cloth patches of various shapes and colors covering it. While wearing the robe, you can take a Magic action to detach one of the patches, causing it to become the object or creature it represents. Once the last patch is removed, the robe becomes an ordinary garment.

The robe has two of each of the following patches:

*   Bullseye Lantern (filled and lit)
*   Dagger
*   Mirror
*   Pole
*   Rope (coiled)
*   Sack

In addition, the robe has 4d4 other patches. The GM chooses the patches or determines them randomly by rolling on the following table.

| Id100 | Patch |
| :--- | :--- |
| 01–08 | Bag of 100 GP |
| 09–15 | Silver coffer (1 foot long, 6 inches wide and deep) worth 500 GP |
| 16–22 | Iron door (up to 10 feet wide and 10 feet high, barred on one side of your choice), which you can place in an opening you can reach; it conforms to fit the opening, attaching and hinging itself |
| 23–30 | 10 gems worth 100 GP each |
| 31–44 | Wooden ladder (24 feet long) |
| 45–51 | Riding Horse with a Riding Saddle |
| 52–59 | Open pit (a 10-foot Cube), which you can place on the ground within 10 feet of yourself |
| 60–68 | 4 Potions of Healing |
| 69–75 | Rowboat (12 feet long) |
| 76–83 | Spell Scroll containing one spell of level 1, 2, or 3 (your choice) |

---
# Page 12

| Id100 | Patch |
| :--- | :--- |
| 84–90 | 2 Mastiffs |
| 91–96 | Window (2 feet by 4 feet, up to 2 feet deep), which you can place on a vertical surface you can reach |
| 97–00 | Portable Ram |

## Rod of Absorption
*Rod, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While holding this rod, you can take a Reaction to absorb a spell that is targeting only you and doesn't create an area of effect. The absorbed spell's effect is canceled, and the spell's energy—not the spell itself—is stored in the rod. The energy has the same level as the spell when it was cast. A canceled spell dissipates with no effect, and any resources used to cast it are wasted. The rod can absorb and store up to 50 levels of energy over the course of its existence. Once the rod absorbs 50 levels of energy, it can't absorb more. If you are targeted by a spell that the rod can't store, the rod has no effect on that spell.

When you become attuned to the rod, you know how many levels of energy the rod has absorbed over the course of its existence and how many levels of spell energy it currently has stored.

If you are a spellcaster holding the rod, you can convert energy stored in it into spell slots to cast spells you have prepared or know. You can create spell slots only of a level equal to or lower than your own spell slots, up to a maximum of level 5. You use the stored levels in place of your slots but otherwise cast the spell as normal. For example, you can use 3 levels stored in the rod as a level 3 spell slot.

A newly found rod typically has 1d10 levels of spell energy stored in it. A rod that can no longer absorb spell energy and has no energy remaining becomes nonmagical.

## Rod of Alertness
*Rod, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This rod has the following properties.

**Alertness.** While holding the rod, you have Advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on Initiative rolls.

**Spells.** While holding the rod, you can cast the following spells from it:
*   Detect Evil and Good
*   Detect Magic
*   Detect Poison and Disease
*   See Invisibility

**Protective Aura.** As a Magic action, you can plant the haft end of the rod in the ground, whereupon the rod's head sheds Bright Light in a 60-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 60 feet. While in that Bright Light, you and your allies gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class and saving throws and can sense the location of any Invisible creature that is also in the Bright Light.

The rod's head stops glowing and the effect ends after 10 minutes or when a creature takes a Magic action to pull the rod from the ground. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Rod of Lordly Might
*Rod, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

This rod has a flanged head, and it functions as a magic Mace that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it. The rod has properties associated with six different buttons that are set in a row along the haft. It has three other properties as well, detailed below.

**Buttons.** You can press one of the following buttons as a Bonus Action; a button's effect lasts until you push a different button or until you push the same button again, which causes the rod to revert to its normal form:

**Button 1.** A fiery blade sprouts from the end opposite the rod's flanged head. The flames shed Bright Light in a 40-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 40 feet, and the blade functions as a magic Longsword or Shortsword (your choice) that deals an extra 2d6 Fire damage on a hit.

**Button 2.** The rod's flanged head folds down and two crescent-shaped blades spring out, transforming the rod into a magic Battleaxe that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it.

**Button 3.** The rod's flanged head folds down, a spear point springs from the rod's tip, and the rod's handle lengthens into a 6-foot haft, transforming the rod into a magic Spear that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it.

**Button 4.** The rod transforms into a climbing pole up to 50 feet long (you specify the length), though the rod's buttons remain within your reach. In surfaces as hard as granite, a spike at the bottom and three hooks at the top anchor the pole. Horizontal bars 3 inches long fold out from the sides, 1 foot apart, forming a ladder. The pole can bear up to 4,000 pounds. More weight or lack of solid anchoring causes the rod to revert to its normal form.

**Button 5.** The rod transforms into a handheld battering ram and grants its user a +10 bonus to Strength (Athletics) checks made to break through doors, barricades, and other barriers.

**Button 6.** The rod assumes or remains in its normal form and indicates magnetic north. (Nothing happens if this function of the rod is used in a

---
# Page 13

location that has no magnetic north.) The rod also gives you knowledge of your approximate depth beneath the ground or your height above it.

**Drain Life.** When you hit a creature with a melee attack using the rod, you can force the target to make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes an extra 4d6 Necrotic damage, and you regain a number of Hit Points equal to half that Necrotic damage. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn.

**Paralyze.** When you hit a creature with a melee attack using the rod, you can force the target to make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target has the Paralyzed condition for 1 minute. The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn.

**Terrify.** While holding the rod, you can take a Magic action to force each creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself to make a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target has the Frightened condition for 1 minute. A Frightened target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Rod of Resurrection
*Rod, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

The rod has 5 charges. While you hold it, you can cast one of the following spells from it: Heal (expends 1 charge) or Resurrection (expends 5 charges).

The rod regains 1 expended charge daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the rod disappears in a harmless burst of radiance.

## Rod of Rulership
*Rod, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You can take a Magic action to present the rod and command obedience from each creature of your choice that you can see within 120 feet of yourself. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for 8 hours. While Charmed in this way, the creature regards you as its trusted leader. If harmed by you or your allies or commanded to do something contrary to its nature, a target ceases to be Charmed in this way. Once used, this property can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Rod of Security
*Rod, Very Rare*

While holding this rod, you can take a Magic action to activate it. The rod then instantly transports you and up to 199 other willing creatures you can see to a demiplane. You choose the form the demiplane takes. It could be a tranquil garden, a cheery tavern, an immense palace, a tropical island, a fantastic carnival, or whatever else you can imagine. Regardless of its nature, the demiplane contains enough water and food to sustain its visitors, and the demiplane's environment can't harm its occupants. Everything else that can be interacted with there can exist only there. For example, a flower picked from a garden there disappears if it is taken outside the demiplane.

For each hour spent in the demiplane, a visitor regains Hit Points as if it had spent 1 Hit Point Die. Also, creatures don't age while there, although time passes normally. Visitors can remain there for up to 200 days divided by the number of creatures present (round down).

When the time runs out or you take a Magic action to end the effect, all visitors reappear in the location they occupied when you activated the rod or an unoccupied space nearest that location. Once used, this property can't be used again until 10 days have passed.

## Rope of Climbing
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon*

This 60-foot length of rope can hold up to 3,000 pounds. While holding one end of the rope, you can take a Magic action to command the other end of the rope to animate and move toward a destination you choose, up to the rope's length away from you. That end moves 10 feet on your turn when you first command it and 10 feet at the start of each of your subsequent turns until reaching its destination or until you tell it to stop. You can also tell the rope to fasten itself securely to an object or to unfasten itself, to knot or unknot itself, or to coil itself for carrying.

If you tell the rope to knot, large knots appear at 1-foot intervals along the rope. While knotted, the rope shortens to a 50-foot length and grants Advantage on ability checks made to climb using the rope.

The rope has AC 20, HP 20, and Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. It regains 1 Hit Point every 5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 Hit Point. If the rope drops to 0 Hit Points, it is destroyed.

## Rope of Entanglement
*Wondrous Item, Rare*

This rope is 30 feet long. While holding one end of the rope, you can take a Magic action to command the other end to dart forward and entangle one creature you can see within 20 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or have the Restrained condition. You can release the target by letting go of your end of the rope (causing the rope to coil up in the target's space) or by using a Bonus Action to repeat the command (causing the rope to coil up in your hand).

---
# Page 14

A target Restrained by the rope can take an action to make its choice of a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a successful check, the target is no longer Restrained by the rope. If you're still holding onto the rope when a target escapes from it, you can take a Reaction to command the rope to coil up in your hand; otherwise, the rope coils up in the target's space.

The rope has AC 20, HP 20, and Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. It regains 1 Hit Point every 5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 Hit Point. If the rope drops to 0 Hit Points, it is destroyed.

## Scarab of Protection
*Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

This beetle-shaped medallion provides three benefits while it is on your person.

**Defense.** You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class.

**Preservation.** The scarab has 12 charges. If you fail a saving throw against a Necromancy spell or a harmful effect originating from an Undead, you can take a Reaction to expend 1 charge and turn the failed save into a successful one. The scarab crumbles into powder and is destroyed when its last charge is expended.

**Spell Resistance.** You have Advantage on saving throws against spells.

## Scimitar of Speed
*Weapon (Scimitar), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, you can make one attack with it as a Bonus Action on each of your turns.

## Sending Stones
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon*

Sending Stones come in pairs, with each stone carved to match the other so the pairing is easily recognized. While you touch one stone, you can cast Sending from it. The target is the bearer of the other stone. If no creature bears the other stone, you know that fact as soon as you use the stone, and you don't cast the spell.

Once Sending is cast using either stone, the stones can't be used again until the next dawn. If one of the stones in a pair is destroyed, the other one becomes nonmagical.

## Sentinel Shield
*Armor (Shield), Uncommon*

While holding this Shield, you have Advantage on Initiative rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks. The Shield is emblazoned with a symbol of an eye.

## Shield, +1, +2, or +3
*Armor (Shield), Uncommon (+1), Rare (+2), or Very Rare (+3)*

While holding this Shield, you have a bonus to Armor Class determined by the Shield's rarity, in addition to the Shield's normal bonus to AC.

## Shield of Missile Attraction
*Armor (Shield), Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While holding this Shield, you have Resistance to damage from attacks made with Ranged weapons.

**Curse.** This Shield is cursed. Attuning to it curses you until you are targeted by a Remove Curse spell or similar magic. Removing the Shield fails to end the curse on you. Whenever an attack with a Ranged weapon targets a creature within 10 feet of you, the curse causes you to become the target instead.

## Shield of the Cavalier
*Armor (Shield), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While holding this Shield, you have a +2 bonus to Armor Class. This bonus is in addition to the Shield's normal bonus to AC.

The Shield has the following additional properties that you can use while holding it.

**Forceful Bash.** When you take the Attack action, you can make one of the attack rolls using the Shield against a target within 5 feet of yourself. Apply your Proficiency Bonus and Strength modifier to the attack roll. On a hit, the Shield deals Force damage to the target equal to 2d6 + 2 plus your Strength modifier, and if the target is a creature, you can push it up to 10 feet directly away from yourself. If the creature is your size or smaller, you can also knock it down, giving it the Prone condition.

**Protective Field.** As a Reaction, when you or an ally you can see within 5 feet of you is targeted by an attack or makes a saving throw against an area of effect, you can use the Shield to create an immobile 5-foot Emanation originating from you. When the Emanation appears, any creatures or objects not fully contained within it are pushed into the nearest unoccupied spaces outside it. The attack or area of effect that triggered the Reaction has no effect on creatures and objects inside the Emanation, which lasts as long as you maintain Concentration, up to 1 minute. Nothing can pass into or out of the Emanation. A creature or object inside the Emanation can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a creature inside the Emanation damage anything outside it. Once this property is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn.

---
# Page 15

## Slippers of Spider Climbing
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While you wear these light shoes, you can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and along ceilings, while leaving your hands free. You have a Climb Speed equal to your Speed. However, the slippers don't allow you to move this way on a slippery surface, such as one covered by ice or oil.

## Sovereign Glue
*Wondrous Item, Legendary*

This viscous, milky-white substance can form a permanent adhesive bond between any two objects. It must be stored in a jar or flask that has been coated inside with Oil of Slipperiness. When found, a container contains 1d6 + 1 ounces.

One ounce of the glue can cover a 1-foot square surface. Applying an ounce of Sovereign Glue takes a Utilize action, and the applied glue takes 1 minute to set. Once it has done so, the bond it creates can be broken only by the application of Universal Solvent or Oil of Etherealness, or with a Wish spell.

## Spellguard Shield
*Armor (Shield), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While holding this Shield, you have Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, and spell attack rolls have Disadvantage against you.

## Spell Scroll
*Scroll, Rarity Varies*

A Spell Scroll bears the words of a single spell, written in a mystical cipher. If the spell is on your spell list, you can read the scroll and cast its spell without Material components. Otherwise, the scroll is unintelligible. Casting the spell by reading the scroll requires the spell's normal casting time. Once the spell is cast, the scroll crumbles to dust. If the casting is interrupted, the scroll isn't lost.

If the spell is on your spell list but of a higher level than you can normally cast, you make an ability check using your spellcasting ability to determine whether you cast the spell. The DC equals 10 plus the spell's level. On a failed check, the spell disappears from the scroll with no other effect.

The level of the spell on the scroll determines the spell's saving throw DC and attack bonus, as well as the scroll's rarity, as shown in the following table.

| Spell Level | Rarity | Save DC | Attack Bonus |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Cantrip | Common | 13 | +5 |
| 1 | Common | 13 | +5 |
| 2 | Uncommon | 13 | +5 |
| 3 | Uncommon | 15 | +7 |
| 4 | Rare | 15 | +7 |
| 5 | Rare | 17 | +9 |
| 6 | Very Rare | 17 | +9 |
| 7 | Very Rare | 18 | +10 |
| 8 | Very Rare | 18 | +10 |
| 9 | Legendary | 19 | +11 |

**Copying a Scroll into a Spellbook.** A Wizard spell on a Spell Scroll can be copied into a spellbook. When a spell is copied in this way, the copier must succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) check with a DC equal to 10 plus the spell's level. On a successful check, the spell is copied. Whether the check succeeds or fails, the Spell Scroll is destroyed.

## Sphere of Annihilation
*Wondrous Item, Legendary*

This 2-foot-diameter black sphere is a hole in the multiverse, hovering in space and stabilized by a magical field surrounding it.

The sphere obliterates all matter it passes through and all matter that passes through it. Artifacts are the exception. Unless an Artifact is susceptible to damage from a Sphere of Annihilation, it passes through the sphere unscathed. Anything else that touches the sphere but isn't wholly engulfed and obliterated by it takes 8d10 Force damage.

**Controlling the Sphere.** A Sphere of Annihilation is stationary until someone takes control of it. If you are within 60 feet of a sphere, you can take a Magic action to make a DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana) check. On a successful check, you control the sphere until the start of your next turn, and if it was under another creature's control, that creature loses control of the sphere. On a failed check, the sphere moves 10 feet toward you in a straight line.

While in control of the sphere, you can take a Bonus Action to cause it to move in one direction of your choice, up to a number of feet equal to 5 times your Intelligence modifier (minimum 5 feet). Any creature whose space the sphere enters must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw or be touched by it, taking 8d10 Force damage. A creature reduced to 0 Hit Points by this damage is obliterated, leaving its possessions behind but no other physical remains.

**Sphere Interactions.** If the sphere comes into contact with a planar portal (such as that created by the Gate spell) or an extradimensional space (such as that within a Portable Hole), the GM determines randomly what happens using the following table.

---
# Page 16

| Id100 | Result |
| :--- | :--- |
| 01–50 | The sphere is destroyed. |
| 51–85 | The sphere moves through the portal or into the extradimensional space. |
| 86–00 | A spatial rift sends the sphere and each creature and object within 180 feet of the sphere to a random plane of existence. |

## Staff of Charming
*Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

This staff has 10 charges. While holding the staff, you can use any of its properties:

**Cast Spell.** You can expend 1 of the staff's charges to cast Charm Person, Command, or Comprehend Languages from it using your spell save DC.

**Reflect Enchantment.** If you succeed on a saving throw against an Enchantment spell that targets only you, you can take a Reaction to expend 1 charge from the staff and turn the spell back on its caster as if you had cast the spell.

**Resist Enchantment.** If you fail a saving throw against an Enchantment spell that targets only you, you can turn your failed save into a successful one. You can't use this property of the staff again until the next dawn.

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d8 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff crumbles to dust and is destroyed.

## Staff of Fire
*Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

You have Resistance to Fire damage while you hold this staff.

**Spells.** The staff has 10 charges. While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost | Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Burning Hands | 1 | Wall of Fire | 4 |
| Fireball | 3 | | |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff crumbles into cinders and is destroyed.

## Staff of Frost
*Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

You have Resistance to Cold damage while you hold this staff.

**Spells.** The staff has 10 charges. While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost | Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Cone of Cold | 5 | Ice Storm | 4 |
| Fog Cloud | 1 | Wall of Ice | 4 |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff turns to water and is destroyed.

## Staff of Healing
*Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Bard, Cleric, or Druid)*

This staff has 10 charges. While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spellcasting ability modifier. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Cure Wounds | 1 charge per spell level (maximum 4 for a level 4 spell) |
| Lesser Restoration | 2 |
| Mass Cure Wounds | 5 |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff vanishes in a flash of light, lost forever.

## Staff of Power
*Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

This staff has 20 charges and can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class, saving throws, and spell attack rolls.

**Spells.** While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

---
# Page 17

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Cone of Cold | 5 |
| Fireball (level 5 version) | 5 |
| Globe of Invulnerability | 6 |
| Hold Monster | 5 |
| Levitate | 2 |
| Lightning Bolt (level 5 version) | 5 |
| Magic Missile | 1 |
| Ray of Enfeeblement | 1 |
| Wall of Force | 5 |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls but loses all other properties. On a 20, the staff regains 1d8 + 2 charges.

**Retributive Strike.** You can take a Magic action to break the staff over your knee or against a solid surface. The staff is destroyed and releases its magic in an explosion that fills a 30-foot Emanation originating from itself. You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take Force damage equal to 16 times the number of charges in the staff. Each other creature in the area makes a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes Force damage equal to 4 times the number of charges in the staff. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage.

## Staff of Striking
*Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it.

The staff has 10 charges. When you hit with a melee attack using it, you can expend up to 3 charges. For each charge you expend, the target takes an extra 1d6 Force damage.

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff becomes a nonmagical Quarterstaff.

## Staff of Swarming Insects
*Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

This staff has 10 charges.

**Insect Cloud.** While holding the staff, you can take a Magic action and expend 1 charge to cause a swarm of harmless flying insects to fill a 30-foot Emanation originating from you. The insects remain for 10 minutes, making the area Heavily Obscured for creatures other than you. A strong wind (like that created by Gust of Wind) disperses the swarm and ends the effect.

**Spells.** While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC and spell attack modifier. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Giant Insect | 4 |
| Insect Plague | 5 |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, a swarm of insects consumes and destroys the staff, then disperses.

## Staff of the Magi
*Staff, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)*

This staff has 50 charges and can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it. While you hold it, you gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls.

**Spell Absorption.** While holding the staff, you have Advantage on saving throws against spells. In addition, you can take a Reaction when another creature casts a spell that targets only you. If you do, the staff absorbs the magic of the spell, canceling its effect and gaining a number of charges equal to the absorbed spell's level. However, if doing so brings the staff's total number of charges above 50, the staff explodes as if you activated its Retributive Strike (see below).

**Spells.** While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Arcane Lock | 0 |
| Conjure Elemental | 7 |
| Detect Magic | 0 |
| Dispel Magic | 3 |
| Enlarge/Reduce | 0 |
| Fireball (level 7 version) | 7 |
| Flaming Sphere | 2 |
| Ice Storm | 4 |
| Invisibility | 2 |
| Knock | 2 |
| Light | 0 |
| Lightning Bolt (level 7 version) | 7 |

---
# Page 18

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Mage Hand | 0 |
| Passwall | 5 |
| Plane Shift | 7 |
| Protection from Evil and Good | 0 |
| Telekinesis | 5 |
| Wall of Fire | 4 |
| Web | 2 |

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 4d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 20, the staff regains 1d12 + 1 charges.

**Retributive Strike.** You can take a Magic action to break the staff over your knee or against a solid surface. The staff is destroyed and releases its magic in an explosion that fills a 30-foot Emanation originating from itself. You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take Force damage equal to 16 times the number of charges in the staff. Each other creature in the area makes a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes Force damage equal to 6 times the number of charges in the staff. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage.

## Staff of the Python
*Staff, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor Snake in that space. The snake is under your control and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn immediately after yours.

On your turn, you can mentally command the snake (no action required) if it is within 60 feet of you and you don't have the Incapacitated condition. You decide what action the snake takes and where it moves during its turn, or you can issue it a general command, such as to attack your enemies or guard a location. Absent commands from you, the snake defends itself.

As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake to revert to staff form in its current space, and you can't use the staff's property again for 1 hour. If the snake is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it dies and reverts to its staff form; the staff then shatters and is destroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before losing all its Hit Points, it regains all of them.

## Staff of the Woodlands
*Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Druid)*

This staff has 6 charges and can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you have a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls.

**Spells.** While holding the staff, you can cast one of the spells on the following table from it, using your spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Animal Friendship | 1 |
| Awaken | 5 |
| Barkskin | 2 |
| Locate Animals or Plants | 2 |
| Pass without Trace | 2 |
| Speak with Animals | 1 |
| Speak with Plants | 3 |
| Wall of Thorns | 6 |

**Tree Form.** You can take a Magic action to plant one end of the staff in earth in an unoccupied space and expend 1 charge to transform the staff into a healthy tree. The tree is 60 feet tall and has a 5-foot-diameter trunk, and its branches at the top spread out in a 20-foot radius. The tree appears ordinary but radiates a faint aura of Transmutation magic that can be discerned with the Detect Magic spell. While touching the tree and using a Magic action, you return the staff to its normal form. Any creature in the tree falls when the tree reverts to a staff.

**Regaining Charges.** The staff regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff loses its properties and becomes a nonmagical Quarterstaff.

## Staff of Thunder and Lightning
*Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with it. It also has the following additional properties. Once one of these properties is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn.

**Lightning.** When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can cause the target to take an extra 2d6 Lightning damage (no action required).

**Thunder.** When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can cause the staff to emit a crack of thunder audible out to 300 feet (no action required). The target you hit must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or have the Stunned condition until the end of your next turn.

---
# Page 19

**Thunder and Lightning.** Immediately after you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can take a Bonus Action to use the Lightning and Thunder properties (see above) at the same time. Doing so doesn't expend the daily use of those properties, only the use of this one.

**Lightning Strike.** You can take a Magic action to cause a bolt of lightning to leap from the staff's tip in a Line that is 5 feet wide and 120 feet long. Each creature in that Line makes a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 9d6 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.

**Thunderclap.** You can take a Magic action to cause the staff to produce a thunderclap audible out to 600 feet. Every creature within a 60-foot Emanation originating from you makes a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d6 Thunder damage and has the Deafened condition for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage only.

## Staff of Withering
*Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This staff has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.

The staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff. On a hit, it deals damage as a normal Quarterstaff, and you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 2d10 Necrotic damage to the target and force it to make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage for 1 hour on any ability check or saving throw that uses Strength or Constitution.

## Stone of Controlling Earth Elementals
*Wondrous Item, Rare*

While touching this 5-pound stone to the ground, you can take a Magic action to summon an Earth Elemental. The elemental appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 30 feet of yourself, obeys your commands, and takes its turn immediately after you on your Initiative count. The elemental disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, or when you dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The stone can't be used this way again until the next dawn.

## Stone of Good Luck (Luckstone)
*Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

While this polished agate is on your person, you gain a +1 bonus to ability checks and saving throws.

## Sun Blade
*Weapon (Longsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This item appears to be a sword hilt.

**Blade of Radiance.** While grasping the hilt, you can take a Bonus Action to cause a blade of pure radiance to spring into existence or make the blade disappear. While the blade exists, this magic weapon functions as a Longsword with the Finesse property. If you are proficient with Longswords or Shortswords, you are proficient with the Sun Blade.

You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this weapon, which deals Radiant damage instead of Slashing damage. When you hit an Undead with it, that target takes an extra 1d8 Radiant damage.

**Sunlight.** The sword's luminous blade emits Bright Light in a 15-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 15 feet. The light is sunlight. While the blade persists, you can take a Magic action to expand or reduce its radius of Bright Light and Dim Light by 5 feet each, to a maximum of 30 feet each or a minimum of 10 feet each.

## Sword of Life Stealing
*Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, Scimitar, or Shortsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)*

When you attack a creature with this magic weapon and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, that target takes an extra 15 Necrotic damage if it isn't a Construct or an Undead, and you gain Temporary Hit Points equal to the amount of Necrotic damage taken.

## Sword of Sharpness
*Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, or Scimitar), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

When you attack an object with this magic weapon and hit, maximize your weapon damage dice against the target.

When you attack a creature with this weapon and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, that target takes an extra 14 Slashing damage and gains 1 Exhaustion level.

## Sword of Wounding
*Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, Scimitar, or Shortsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)*

When you hit a creature with an attack using this magic weapon, the target takes an extra 2d6 Necrotic damage and must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be unable to regain Hit Points for 1 hour. The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

## Talisman of Pure Good
*Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a Cleric or Paladin)*

This talisman is a mighty symbol of goodness. A Fiend or an Undead that touches the talisman takes 8d6 Radiant damage and takes the damage again each time it ends its turn holding or carrying the talisman.

---
# Page 20

**Holy Symbol.** You can use the talisman as a Holy Symbol. You gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls while you wear or hold it.

**Pure Rebuke.** The talisman has 7 charges. While wearing or holding the talisman, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge and target one creature you can see on the ground within 120 feet of yourself. A flaming fissure opens under the target, and the target makes a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. If the target is a Fiend or an Undead, it has Disadvantage on the save. On a failed save, the target falls into the fissure and is destroyed, leaving no remains. On a successful save, the target isn't cast into the fissure but takes 4d6 Psychic damage from the ordeal. In either case, the fissure then closes, leaving no trace of its existence. When you expend the last charge, the talisman disperses into motes of golden light and is destroyed.

## Talisman of the Sphere
*Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

While holding or wearing this talisman, you have Advantage on any Intelligence (Arcana) check you make to control a Sphere of Annihilation. In addition, when you start your turn in control of a Sphere of Annihilation, you can take a Magic action to move it 10 feet plus a number of additional feet equal to 10 times your Intelligence modifier. This movement doesn't have to be in a straight line.

## Talisman of Ultimate Evil
*Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

This item symbolizes unrepentant evil. A creature that isn't a Fiend or an Undead that touches the talisman takes 8d6 Necrotic damage and takes the damage again each time it ends its turn holding or carrying the talisman.

**Holy Symbol.** You can use the talisman as a Holy Symbol. You gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls while you wear or hold it.

**Ultimate End.** The talisman has 6 charges. While wearing or holding the talisman, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge and target one creature you can see on the ground within 120 feet of yourself. A flaming fissure opens under the target, and the target makes a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw. If the target is a Celestial, it has Disadvantage on the save. On a failed save, the target falls into the fissure and is destroyed, leaving no remains. On a successful save, the target isn't cast into the fissure but takes 4d6 Psychic damage from the ordeal. In either case, the fissure then closes, leaving no trace of its existence. When you expend the last charge, the talisman dissolves into foul-smelling slime and is destroyed.

## Thunderous Greatclub
*Weapon (Greatclub), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)*

While you are attuned to this magic weapon, your Strength is 20 unless your Strength is already equal to or greater than that score. The weapon deals an extra 1d8 Thunder damage to any creature it hits and an extra 3d8 Thunder damage to objects it hits that aren't being worn or carried.

The weapon has the following additional properties.

**Clap of Thunder.** As a Magic action, you can strike the weapon against a hard surface to create a loud clap of thunder audible out to 300 feet. You also create a 30-foot Cone of thunderous energy. Each creature in the Cone must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have the Prone condition. Nonmagical objects in the Cone that aren't being worn or carried take 3d8 Thunder damage.

**Earthquake.** As a Magic action, you can strike the weapon against the ground to create an intense seismic disturbance in a 50-foot-radius circle centered on the point of impact. Structures in contact with the ground in that area take 50 Bludgeoning damage, and each creature on the ground in that area must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition. If that creature is also concentrating, it must succeed on a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, or its Concentration is broken. In addition, you can cause a 30-foot-deep, 10-foot-wide fissure to open up on the ground anywhere in the area. Any creature on a spot where the fissure opens must make a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw, falling into the fissure on a failed save or moving with the fissure's edge on a successful one. Any structure on a spot where the fissure opens collapses into the fissure. Once you use this property, it can't be used again until the next dawn.

## Tome of Clear Thought
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

This book contains memory and logic exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Intelligence increases by 2, to a maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic but regains it in a century.

## Tome of Leadership and Influence
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

This book contains guidelines for influencing and charming others, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Charisma increases by 2, to

---
# Page 21

a maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic but regains it in a century.

## Tome of Understanding
*Wondrous Item, Very Rare*

This book contains intuition and insight exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Wisdom increases by 2, to a maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.

## Trident of Fish Command
*Weapon (Trident), Uncommon (Requires Attunement)*

This magic weapon has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While you carry it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Dominate Beast (save DC 15) from it on a Beast that has a Swim Speed.

## Universal Solvent
*Wondrous Item, Legendary*

This tube holds milky liquid with a strong alcohol smell. When found, a tube contains 1d6 + 1 ounces.

You can take a Utilize action to pour 1 or more ounces of solvent from the tube onto a surface within reach. Each ounce instantly dissolves up to 1 square foot of adhesive it touches, including Sovereign Glue.

## Vicious Weapon
*Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Rare*

This magic weapon deals an extra 2d6 damage to any creature it hits. This extra damage is of the same type as the weapon's normal damage.

## Vorpal Sword
*Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, or Scimitar), Legendary (Requires Attunement)*

You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, the weapon ignores Resistance to Slashing damage.

When you use this weapon to attack a creature that has at least one head and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, you cut off one of the creature's heads. The creature dies if it can't survive without the lost head. A creature is immune to this effect if it has Immunity to Slashing damage, if it doesn't have or need a head, or if the GM decides that the creature is too big for its head to be cut off with this weapon. Such a creature instead takes an extra 30 Slashing damage from the hit. If the creature has Legendary Resistance, it can expend one daily use of that trait to avoid losing its head, taking the extra damage instead.

## Wand of Binding
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This wand has 7 charges.

**Spells.** While holding the wand, you can cast one of the spells (save DC 17) on the following table from it. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Hold Monster | 5 |
| Hold Person | 2 |

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Enemy Detection
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge. For 1 minute, you know the direction of the nearest creature Hostile to you within 60 feet, but not its distance from you. The wand can sense the presence of Hostile creatures that are Invisible, ethereal, disguised, or hidden, as well as those in plain sight. The effect ends if you stop holding the wand.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Fear
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This wand has 7 charges.

**Spells.** While holding the wand, you can cast one of the spells (save DC 15) on the following table from it. The table indicates how many charges you must expend to cast the spell.

| Spell | Charge Cost |
| :--- | :--- |
| Command ("flee" or "grovel" only) | 1 |
| Fear (60-foot Cone) | 3 |

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Fireballs
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can expend no more than 3 charges to cast Fireball (save DC 15) from it. For 1 charge, you cast the level 3 version of the spell. You can increase the spell's level by 1 for each additional charge you expend.

---
# Page 22

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Lightning Bolts
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can expend no more than 3 charges to cast Lightning Bolt (save DC 15) from it. For 1 charge, you cast the level 3 version of the spell. You can increase the spell's level by 1 for each additional charge you expend.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Magic Detection
*Wand, Uncommon*

This wand has 3 charges. While holding it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Detect Magic from it. The wand regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.

## Wand of Magic Missiles
*Wand, Uncommon*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can expend no more than 3 charges to cast Magic Missile from it. For 1 charge, you cast the level 1 version of the spell. You can increase the spell's level by 1 for each additional charge you expend.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Paralysis
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge to cause a thin blue ray to streak from the tip toward a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have the Paralyzed condition for 1 minute. At the end of each of the target's turns, it repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on a success.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Polymorph
*Wand, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Polymorph (save DC 15) from it.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Secrets
*Wand, Uncommon*

This wand has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While holding it, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge, and if a secret door or trap is within 60 feet of you, the wand pulses and points at the one nearest to you.

## Wand of the War Mage, +1, +2, or +3
*Wand, Uncommon (+1), Rare (+2), or Very Rare (+3) (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

While holding this wand, you gain a bonus to spell attack rolls determined by the wand's rarity. In addition, you ignore Half Cover when making a spell attack roll.

## Wand of Web
*Wand, Uncommon (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Web (save DC 13) from it.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.

## Wand of Wonder
*Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)*

This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 charge while choosing a point within 120 feet of yourself. That location becomes the point of origin of a spell or other magical effect determined by rolling on the Wand of Wonder Effects table. Spells cast from the wand have a save DC of 15. If a spell's maximum range is normally less than 120 feet, it becomes 120 feet when cast from the wand. If an effect has multiple possible subjects, the GM determines randomly which among them are affected.

**Regaining Charges.** The wand regains 1d6 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the wand's last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand crumbles into dust and is destroyed.

---
# Page 23

### Wand of Wonder Effects

| Id100 | Effect |
| :--- | :--- |
| 01–20 | You cast a spell originating from the chosen point. Roll 1d10 to determine the spell: on a 1–2, Darkness; on a 3–4, Faerie Fire; on a 5–6, Fireball; on a 7–8, Slow; on a 9–10, Stinking Cloud. |
| 21–25 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, you have the Stunned condition until the start of your next turn, believing something awesome just happened. |
| 26–30 | You cast Gust of Wind. The Line created by the spell extends from you to the chosen point of origin. |
| 31–35 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, you take 1d6 Psychic damage. |
| 36–40 | Heavy rain falls for 1 minute in a 120-foot-high, 60-foot-radius Cylinder centered on the chosen point of origin. During that time, the area of effect is Lightly Obscured. |
| 41–45 | A cloud of 600 oversized butterflies fills a 60-foot-high, 30-foot-radius Cylinder centered on the chosen point of origin. The butterflies remain for 10 minutes, during which time the area of effect is Heavily Obscured. |
| 46–50 | You cast Lightning Bolt. The Line created by the spell extends from you to the chosen point of origin. |
| 51–55 | The creature closest to the chosen point of origin is enlarged as if you had cast Enlarge/Reduce on it. If the target isn't you and can't be affected by that spell, you become the target instead. |
| 56–60 | A magically formed creature appears in an unoccupied space as close to the chosen point of origin as possible. The creature isn't under your control, acts as it normally would, and disappears after 1 hour or when it drops to 0 Hit Points. Roll 1d4 to determine which creature appears. On a 1, a Rhinoceros appears; on a 2, an Elephant appears; and on a 3–4, a Rat appears. |
| 61–64 | Grass covers a 60-foot-radius circle of ground, with the center of that circle as close to the chosen point of origin as possible. Grass that's already there grows to ten times its normal size and remains overgrown for 1 minute. |
| 65–68 | An object of the GM's choice disappears into the Ethereal Plane. The object must be neither worn nor carried, within 120 feet of the chosen point of origin, and no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. If there are no such objects in range, nothing happens. |
| 69–72 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, you shrink as if you had cast Enlarge/Reduce on yourself and remain in that state for 1 minute. |
| 73–77 | Leaves grow from the creature nearest to the chosen point of origin. Unless they are picked off, the leaves turn brown and fall off after 24 hours. |
| 78–82 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, a burst of colorful, shimmering light extends from you in a 30-foot Emanation. Each creature in the area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for 1 minute. A creature repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. |
| 83–87 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, you cast Invisibility on yourself. |
| 88–92 | Nothing happens at the chosen point of origin. Instead, a stream of 1d4 × 10 gems, each worth 1 GP, shoots from the wand's tip in a Line 30 feet long and 5 feet wide toward the chosen point of origin. Each gem deals 1 Bludgeoning damage, and the total damage of the gems is divided equally among all creatures in the Line. |
| 93–97 | You cast Polymorph, targeting the creature closest to the chosen point of origin. Roll 1d4 to determine the target's new form. On a 1, the new form is a Black Bear; on a 2, the new form is a Giant Wasp; on a 3–4, the new form is a Frog. |
| 98–00 | The creature closest to the chosen point of origin makes a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature has the Restrained condition and begins to turn to stone. While Restrained in this way, the creature repeats the save at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the effect ends. On a failed save, the creature has the Petrified condition instead of the Restrained condition. The petrification lasts until the creature is freed by the Greater Restoration spell or similar magic. |